Unfortunately the Python interpreter crashes (using an M1-based mac) when importing stim after installing v1.7.0 with the prebuilt binaries:
I tried instead installing from source with the pip --no-binary flag which raises this exception instead:
since the stim.h file is no longer in the source distribution. From a comparison with the v1.6.0 source distribution it looks like all the header files are missing in the v1.7.0 PyPI source distribution.
Thanks for reporting this so quickly.
I'll fix the missing header today and drop the mac prebuilts and look into if ciwheelbuilder can do M1 stuff...
Thanks! It looks like there was a similar issue last year with Tensorflow: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65383338/zsh-illegal-hardware-instruction-python-when-installing-tensorflow-on-macbook.
I'll leave the crash report here too in case it helps
That's such a weird place for it to fail. It's initializing the gate data map? There's nothing particularly simd-ish happening there...
I wonder if it's just a compiler optimization that used avx without me realizing, and it comes down to the fact that the architecture detection is using the avx version initially instead of the non-avx version...
Could you find the stim/__init__.py file in your virtual environment and replace
at the top with
and see if that works?
In the meantime I'm gonna try to get my hands on an M1 macbook...
Sure, just made that change in the stim/__init__.py file and the import works now
Okay, that's an easy fix then. I'll look into the header issue (since I want the fallback to work too!) and then make a release.
Thanks this was really helpful.
Great, thanks!
Okay, I have uploaded v1.7.1.
Could you confirm that pip install stim now works on your machine? (may have to say stim==1.7.1 if certain indexes haven't updated yet)
Also, could you confirm that pip install --no-binary stim stim doesn't still crash with the same missing header? (No need to wait for it to finish, it takes quite awhile; the header failure was quite early before right?)
Sure, both the prebuilt and source installations work nicely now with v1.7.1
Great, closing the issue as fixed.
