MacOS Mojave deliberately deleted the user/include folder so when compiling cython code, gcc cannot find the headers. I struggled a bit after suddenly updating to the latest MacOS and could find the solution here:
https://programmer.help/blogs/how-to-resolve-pip-install-twisted-error-limits.h-no-such-file-or-directory.html
Just do
In case others also update and end up with this error. @nathanshammah
Leaving the full error message here:
I also experienced this with the latest 4.4.2(?).dev version.
When I try it now, it says that the software plugin is incompatible with the OS, which is 10.14.5, Mojave.
gcc is 4.8.5, Xcode 10.2
The workaround for me seems to be
The workaround for me seems to be
thank you!!!!
For people finding this later, this is not just because of the macOS version, but also because of your Xcode version.  As Xcode increases, Apple are making it harder and harder to have a sensible dev environment for command-line tools when all you care about is building for your local machine.
You may find that a system include like _ctermid.h is missing in the future - it won't always be limits.h - especially with Xcode 11+.  Since M1 Macs (I assume - I don't have one) ship entirely with Xcode 12, they will likely need this too.  I believe even xcode-select --install will not always reinstate /usr/include any more, and the *_headers_*.pkg seems to not work with Xcode 11. /usr/include is gone, but Xcode has the correct set of includes for all platforms, so you can set your compiler's sysroot to the relevant SDK directory to get correct lookups.  By default, the one you want will be at
The system clang will likely find this correctly, but if not or if you're using a separate compiler, for either gcc or clang you should pass the flag
to find the correct includes.  To automate this procedure, you may want to add that flag to your CFLAGS and CPPFLAGS environment variables.  For example, you could put in your .bashrc
to have it automatically added to all C compilations (after that file has been sourced).
Hello @jakelishman sorry for hopping in, but I'm having the same problem and I'm desperate...
I have xcode 10.3
This is THE error:
In the compile flags I see these:
I've tried all suggested above to reinstall all headers, but it's nowhere in my entire disk.
do you have any ideas?
I don't know if there was a macOS update or something, but my configuration has gone funny as well.  I find now that using gcc --sysroot=... rather than gcc -isysroot=... (note the missing i and the doubled --) works.  I'm not 100% sure why this is the case - as far as I'm aware, the only difference between --sysroot and -isysroot is just that the latter only applies to includes and the former is both libraries and includes - but it works for me right now.  I must be wrong in some way about the difference.
Hopefully that works for you on a temporary basis.  I'm sure Apple will be along shortly to change everything else up for us again.
Closing this now because it's not really a QuTiP error, just Apple being Apple.
