Occasionally I when running artiq_flash -t sayma I get an openocd error Error: Unknown flash device (ID 0x00000000). Usually, cycling the power to Sayma_AMC several times fixes the problem. I've not found a way to reproduce this reliably.
What does the idcode scan report that happens before that?
I.e. always provide full logs...
A bit orthogonal comment... On seeing the hugeness of the monolithic openocd command. It's a bit hard to debug which part of the TCL is causing the trouble. Consider making several independent calls to openocd instead of one big one.
Also,
That would not work.
From the symptoms this is the same as the 1.8V supply dying and the same as the FTDI chip locking up when bein accessed (or openocd ctrl-C-ed) when Sayma is not powered. We already have issues for those.
sinara-hw/sinara#358
sinara-hw/sinara#255
@jordens don't summarily close Issues without discussion.
Were you able to reproduce my bug?
Sure. We regularly suffer from it, having to build a remotely-operated power-cycler for the boards and having to use it from time to time in the middle of debugging something else because the board failed again. This is a hardware or MMC firmware issue so, besides being a duplicate, it should not be in the artiq repository.
Our workflow will continue this way. This is neither a democracy nor a therapeutic session. You need to figure out how to cope with duplicate, out-of-place issues being closed. Ask yourself whether your behavior makes ARTIQ or Sinara better.
Ignoring that last hyperbolic statement, let's look at the Issues cited by @jordens.
Issue: review FTDI chip USB signals
Issue: Sayma loses 1.8V supply
Sure. We regularly suffer from it, having to build a remotely-operated power-cycler for the boards and having to use it from time to time in the middle of debugging something else because the board failed again.
So this was sufficiently annoying that you had to implement a technical work around for your test system. And yet based on Issue tracking, M-Labs undertook no effort to promote discussion aimed at understanding and fixing the underlying problem. Months later the problem persists.
This is a hardware or MMC firmware issue so, besides being a duplicate, it should not be in the artiq repository.
Setting aside the question of who is supposed to fix this bug, I'm concerned that the problem has persisted unaddressed for so long. Please recall that M-Labs is contracted to take responsibility for "Project management for Sayma and Metlino testing and integration." I don't care if the Issues are in github's Sinara or ARTIQ Issue tracking system. Your responsibility as project manager is to stay on top of bugs and work with developers to squash them. I'm disappointed by your attentiveness to this Issue.
@gkasprow responded with 3 concrete debugging paths on Nov 13
M-Labs didn't engage with @gkasprow after Nov 13
So what? This issue is Greg's responsibility and he says he is confident debugging this kind of power supply problem. We have enough on our plate with RGMII and other insufferable bugs, and little time to play around with Arduino, Exar software, MMC firmware, and Windows.
We have enough on our plate
When negotiating FY17 contracts M-Labs requested project management responsibility. You were awarded that role as part of your contract. Project management is an ongoing process and not a task that can be deferred until it's convenient.
We filed the issue, Greg was informed and sounds very capable of fixing it, and until he does it we set up a rapid workaround to reduce its impact on our productivity. I don't see what the problem is here.
@sbourdeauducq M-Labs is responsible for tracking the overall project and ensuring that dependent parties are giving due attention to Issues. In this case it's gone unattended since August. Please work with WUT to address it.
Again I disagree, there are higher priority tasks than a problem that:
only potentially affects people using JTAG or UART, which will not be normally used for regular Sayma operation.
I see it while running artiq_flash which is an operation that users normally do.
is easily worked around by using different USB cables. With the cables currently installed at M-Labs there are no USB issues visible on any of the 3 boards.
That's news to me. Please add that observation to the relevant Issue. sinara-hw/sinara#255
