@imranashraf , can we discuss this tomorrow morning?
I just upgraded to 0.3 on the setup and found that this breaks all experiments.
The behaviour of the exception is rather strange so I could use some help.
The following steps allow me to reproduce the problem:
Now here is where it get's weird.
So in summary:
See below for my shell output, I omitted the reason for the failures but I am quite puzzled how this is possible, especially since the previous deployments went so smoothly.
Update: reinstalled OpenQL on my mac (deleted repository cloned again) now all tests pass within OpenQL but it still fails when I run it from PycQED. Need to look into this in more detail.
@AdriaanRol The exception says that you do not have rx180 q0 instruction in your configuration file. Adding this instruction will solve this problem.
@imranashraf, naturally I have checked that this instruction is part of my config file :). These sequences correspond to experiments that I have been running (and compiling) repeatedly using the same config file over the last weeks.
I have a hunch as to what it can be (defining the cclight_operation_type that is new), I'm in a meeting now but I'll test that and come back to you afterwards.
Yes I know you have been testing it, but I added/updated new validation tests and other useful checks on input and config file specification. Because of which you might see problems.
Regarding compilation for cc-light, if an instruction does not have "cc_light_instr" defined for each instruction, it will/should create problem for code generation for cc-light. look for tests/hardware_config_cc_light.json for example, as this is also the one which is mostly used for most of cc-light tests.
I have been able to pinpoint it to the config file but I cannot spot the differences. (I tried to attach the full configs but that failed).
If you spot anything obvious, let me know.
the only difference I see is rX180 compared to rx180, so change it and it should fix the issue.
@imranashraf Well spotted!. Test on my laptop says that is indeed it.
Looks like previously OpenQL was not case sensitive and now it is. I will update my generate config file accordingly and use test if it solves my problems.
@imranashraf tested and working.
Turns out that the config files are now case sensitive (where they were not before).
Thanks for spotting my mistake.


Most welcome @AdriaanRol . It is sensitive at the moment to the names of the custom instructions. I figured it out while i was fixing configuration files for all these tests but forgot to create an issue. I will create a separate issue as a reminder to fix it later.
@imranashraf I actually prefer it to be case sensitive. However, it does mean we need to document it as such.
@AdriaanRol i will document it in the configuration_specification.md
