To test our install instructions, I tried following them on Windows.
This failed with the rather unhelpful error
when installing qt as a dependency of matplotlib in the environment. This is because regardless of the fact that I just installed the latest version of anaconda condaand conda-build is out of date in the root env. Perhaps we should document updating the root env?
Weeeird! Just tried on a bunch of win 7 computers, can't seem to reproduce though !
Ok, it's likely to be transcient and gone with a new version of the anaconda installer, perhaps I got it at the wrong moment and they have since fixed it or perhaps there was something else broken on my computer.
For the record i fixed it by doing a conda update --all in the root environment after which everything was fine in the qcodes env. I have earlier seen someting similar with conda on linux (if I remember correctly it was related to them switching numpy to be build against mkl) where every new environment was broken until the root was updated
I can confirm that I had the same issue, and that the conda update --all trick fixed it.
Note that this bug has nothing to do with Qcodes in particular, but this page is the first page you get when you Google the error message.
I also had the same error, however conda update --all did not work for me (same error occured).
What did solve the problem was to first run conda update conda (see e.g. https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/4160
I'm also having this error in a virtual environment I created with Anaconda 32 bit on Windows, with Python 3.5:
The environment was created from a new Anaconda 32 bit install last week, and conda update --all updates nothing (and conda update conda tells me package conda is not installed)
Edit: interestingly it works with the 64 bit version, however I need it to run a 32 bit application :/
@delallea You need to update the conda package and possibly others in the root environment not the new environment that you have just created
@jenshnielsen I just had again the same problem in win 10.
The reason is the conda package in the root environment is out of date as @jenshnielsen said.
The catch all solution is to switch to the default environment (aka root) and do:
conda update --all
@jenshnielsen Thanks! Indeed conda upate conda in the root environment allowed me to install qt in my virtualenv.
