The first batch of the katas is converted to Notebook format. We'll need to convert the rest of the katas, so that all of them are available both as Notebooks and as regular projects.
This is going to take some work, so I'd appreciate some help!
How can I help?
Thank you for the offer! Do you want to try and convert Phase Estimation kata? It is slightly trickier than the ones already converted, since it uses a custom simulator to count the number of qubits allocated in some tasks. You'll need to remove CounterSimulator.cs from this project and to replace it with a reference to the simulator in utilities/Common - you can see how this is handled in #155.
Let me know if you have any questions about the details!
I am currently having problems with having the q# kernel in jupyter notebook (I already noted it on github), so I am going to have to spend some time with that. Meanwhile, if you have time to finish this last one in the next 3 weeks, I would recommend it.
No worries about the last kata, @jackhyder graciously picked it up.
@sdf94, did you figure out your trouble with the Q# kernel? (I couldn't find your question on our other repos)
Thanks to the selfless work of @jimcristofono and @jackhyder, all the katas on the list have been converted to Jupyter Notebook format! Simon's algorithm kata is the only one not included in the list, but it requires a different kind of work, tracked separately in #138.
The new kata KeyDistribution_BB84 does not have a Jupyter Notebook version and needs one. Reopening this issue rather than creating a new one.
No worries about the last kata, @jackhyder graciously picked it up.
@sdf94, did you figure out your trouble with the Q# kernel? (I couldn't find your question on our other repos)
Yes I did. I had to do a clean download.
The new kata KeyDistribution_BB84 does not have a Jupyter Notebook version and needs one. Reopening this issue rather than creating a new one.
Now that I got the hang of it a little bit, I think I can do this one.
Thank you for the offer!! There is a PR actually open to migrate that kata, #178 - I'm reviewing it now, so that should be covered.
If you're looking for something interesting to do, check out the other issues - I'll be opening some new ones for Hacktoberfest that should hopefully be easy to start with.
