Gate for phased XX-YY interaction. This gate has the same exact definition as XYGate but with XX-YY instead of XX+YY. It is equivalent up to two single-qubit X rotations, but the reason to have it as a separate gate is that those extra single-qubit gates aren't necessary for the decomposition. The decomposition can be obtained from the XYGate decomposition by tweaking some signs in the gate angles.
An external reference for this gate is https://arxiv.org/abs/1208.1287.
I'm happy to contribute this gate if this proposal is accepted and the name agreed upon. I suggest PhasedXXMinusYYGate.
At the Qiskit dev meeting we decided that this gate is appropriate to add. @ajavadia do you have any thoughts about the name? Again, my suggestion is PhasedXXMinusYYGate.
About the naming: I don't mind which direction we're going into but it would be great if we could be consistent. So if we'd call this one something like XXMinusYY then the current XYGate should also be called XXPlusYY. Or, if we keep XYGate, then this should probably be called BSwap or whatever makes most sense from the paper 😄
@Cryoris bSwap refers to this gate with the specific parameter settings theta = pi, beta = 0, the same parameters that make XYGate equal to iSwap. Since iSwap is a separate gate in Qiskit, to be consistent, bSwap would also be a separate gate. This issue is not about adding bSwap, but rather the analogue of XYGate. The paper does not actually suggest any name for this general gate.
So I think your first suggestion is the only way to be systematic here, and in the future. Specifically:
This sounds good to me.
Actually, do we need the "Phased" prefix? XXPlusYYGate would be shorter (and that's already pretty long!). Also, XXpYYGate or XXmYYGate would be even other shorter variants which would be consistent with our current naming structure where one letter stands for one gate characteristic (e.g. we have SX and not SqrtX).
Omitting the "Phased" prefix is misleading because XXPlusYYGate sounds like a single-parameter gate
I agree that shortening plus to p for XXpYYGate is more consistent with other names in Qiskit, but I also think the resulting name is pretty obscure (I find SX to be obscure too).
@Cryoris Do you feel strongly about either of these? If so, I will defer to you.
@Cryoris I went ahead and opened #7786 . I took the first of your suggestions and used the name XXPlusYYGate.
