I think the installation instructions for contributors are incomplete.
At this link, contributors have a link for how to clone a GitHub repo etc. But an extra line is missing for installing an editable version, i.e., using pip install -e . in the top-level directory.
I can make a PR for this if it is needed.
Edit : I managed to solve the python version error. But I am not sure how to install an editable version of toqito.
If I use pip install -e ., there's an error error: can not execute 'setup.py' since setuptools is not available in the build environment even though the latest version of setuptools is involved.
Hi @purva-thakre,
First, thank you for the comment and for checking out the toqito package!
With respect to your questions:
At this link, contributors have a link for how to clone a GitHub repo etc. But an extra line is missing for installing an editable version, i.e., using pip install -e . in the top-level directory.
I can make a PR for this if it is needed.
Sure, if you think that would help contributors, that would be great, thank you!
Edit : I managed to solve the python version error. But I am not sure how to install an editable version of toqito.
If I use pip install -e ., there's an error error: can not execute 'setup.py' since setuptools is not available in the build > environment even though the latest version of setuptools is involved.
Right, the reason this fails is that you are running Python 3.8, and as you correctly mentioned, the toqito project supports Python 3.9+ (as can be seen in the toml file here: https://github.com/vprusso/toqito/blob/master/pyproject.toml
Let me know if that doesn't make sense, and if you have any further questions or comments. Happy to elaborate further. Hope to see a contribution from you for toqito!
Thanks! I plan to work on #141 for unitaryhack.
I was getting that error even after I managed to create a new virtualenv with Python3.9 & setuptools was installed without specifying the version (latest==67.8.0)
If I try to change the version of setuptools to what's specified in pyroject.toml, there's an error.
Ok. I think I managed to fix the setuptools is not available in the build environment error. Not sure why it works though because I have a surface-level understanding of how pyproject.toml works. See this comment for more.
When I used pip install -e ., setuptools was being uninstalled during the process even though it was specified in pyrpoject.toml.
If I make the following changes in lines 63 & 69, I don't get the installation error.

Edit:
There's also one failing test when I run pytest --cov-report term-missing --cov=toqito tests/ locally.
Great. Happy to incorporate the setuptools change in your diff.
As for the test failure, I've opened a separate issue for that here. Thanks for catching that!
#151
