Describe the bug
On Mac M1 installation within a Conda environment appears to succeed, but gives incorrect simulation results.
To Reproduce
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
Expected behavior
This gives result 0j, however this circuit should just add a phase on that input, so should be -1 for the amplitude.
Also it is interesting that if one does the above circuit with only two rails this works fine.
Moreover, this seems to be specific to the arm installation. On my other device (old MacBook Pro with native i386 chip) I had not seen any of these issues, when I did the installation in the exact same way.
Desktop:
Other notes:
I tried to install it in a few different ways, including from source, using either a Rosetta terminal (with Conda configured to x86), or using virtualenv, but found similar, or other issues. Moreover I tried to use a x86 Ubuntu Docker image, and using virtualenv I was still unable to install it.
The emulated installation on x86 did not even allow to import perceval which gave error zsh: illegal hardware instruction  python and crashes the terminal.
I thought this could be due to pip vs Conda installation binaries using inconsistent architecture builds, but I also tried to install all dependencies using Conda directly (and either pip installing perceval, or trying to build from source), but alas similar issues.
Thanks for the report - we are on it !
I reproduced the issue on 0.4.2 and it is coming from Naive backend in quandelibc. When changing to SLOS - the result is ok.
@mario-valdivia - I cannot reproduce the issue on self-compiled quandelibc on branch 0.5.0 - I added a test file so that we can keep track of this.
I reproduced the issue on 0.4.2 and it is coming from Naive backend in quandelibc. When changing to SLOS - the result is ok. @mario-valdivia - I cannot reproduce the issue on self-compiled quandelibc on branch 0.5.0 - I added a test file so that we can keep track of this.
Thanks! I can confirm on my end everything is looking good with "SLOS" backend.
fixed on perceval v0.5.1 (quandelibc v0.5.2)
