I'd like to run RI-RPA calculations on a system involving Zr, C, O, H. The BASIS_RI_cc-TZ does not contain either TZ or QZ basis sets for zirconium, so I'm guessing that this means I will have to parameterize them myself. How should I go about this?
The BASIS_def2_QZVP_RI_ALL does contain a QZVP basis for Zr but it appears to be overcomplete because the PBE SCFs often do not converge...
You may try the basis sets in cp2k/data/BASIS_ccGRB_UZH. You can optimize RI basis sets yourself. Check the manual and get some inspiration from the respective regtests. Probably, you will have to experiment a bit with the parameters and the number of basis functions for each shell to obtain a good accuracy for Zr.
Thanks.
It could very well be something with my input file, but I'm consistently getting segmentation faults, both when using a CP2K 2023.1 Singularity image as well as an easybuild install, and on multiple clusters.
As opposed to the regtest you mention, the input structure contains a minimal cluster of ~60 atoms which are representative of the electronic structure found in the material that I want to study.
which yields
If you have a look at your output, you see that you ask for too much memory (available memory: 3153 MB, request memory: 3500 MB). You have the following options:
For more information where exactly the crash occurs, you may add the keywords TRACE and TRACE_MASTER in the GLOBAL section.
I also noticed that the available memory was lower than the max memory, but when I reduce the max memory in the input file, the available memory also goes down, which is really weird. Any ideas?
I have just double-checked it. The behavior is odd and needs a patch. If I read the code correctly, you ask for 3500 MiB memory and you have only 350 MiB of memory available. Within the RI-methods, the requested memory is only used to replicate a rather cheap matrix for efficiency. But it is of importance for the optimization of RI basis sets and the non-RI-MP2 implementations.
Have you already tried TRACE/TRACE_MASTER? Because the output files become huge, only the last few lines are of importance.
Are you sure that you cannot reduce your reference system? Beware that you have to run this system several hundred times and optimize ALL RI basis sets.
Only 350 MB per process available? That can't be right, where are you getting this from? I'm running on a 128-core node with 256 GB of memory. Plus I assumed that by setting the GROUP_SIZE keyword, he would make groups of processes share memory in order to increase the effective amount of memory per process...
It's difficult to reproduce the electronic density around the Zr atoms with a smaller cluster.
Is it possible to use the full Zr basis during evaluation of the integrals while using the existing RI bases for all the other elements? It might not be that much of a performance hit because there's relatively little Zr atoms in the full periodic structure...
Concerning the missing RI basis sets for Zr and other atoms:
The simplest option is to use the automatically generated RI basis sets following the method of this paper https://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b01041. To do so in CP2K, you have to add the AUTO_BASIS RI_AUX SIZE in your &DFT input section (SIZE = SMALL, MEDIUM, LARGE). The basis sets so generated are accurate, although slightly less efficient than optimized ones.
Note that you can use automatically generated basis sets for only some atomic kind, by overwriting it in the &KIND section (here for oxygen):
