I have tried to verify that qvm and quilc work correctly in Ubuntu 20.04, however I get en error
Insert a short description of the bug here, along with what you expected the behavior to be.
Thanks for helping us improve pyQuil! 🙂
If useful, provide a numbered list of the steps that result in the error.
Otherwise, just fill out the "Code Snippet" and "Error Output" sections below.
Operating System: Ubuntu 20.04
Python Version (python -V): Python 3.9.7
Quilc Version (quilc --version):
QVM Version (qvm --version):
forest-sdk-2.23.0-linux-deb
Python Environment Details (pip freeze or conda list):
Thanks for reporting the issue @fieldofnodes! I think in order to fix this we're going to have to recompile and redistribute the binaries (FYI @notmgsk and @kalzoo).
For now, as a workaround, you can run via Docker by following these instructions
Cheers. That was an my list to do next.
@dbanty Will, you update this issue once the binaries have been recompiled and redistributed?
@dbanty I am having some issues with the docker image rigetti/forest which I pulled from Forest Docker Link.  There is a connect error occurring.
From the Forest Docker Image page with instructions to
Which I do, though I need to use sudo first, then go to run
I do this and get this error
My system information
With hardware information
Thanks @fieldofnodes, it looks like it's having the same issue in the image as you were on Ubuntu. I think the fix is the switch the base to an older version of Debian for now (until we recompile qvm). I'll try to have that done for you today.
@fieldofnodes I got a fix into a prerelease, so you should be able to run docker run -it rigetti/forest:rc (the rc tag) and have that work for now. Let me know if it still causes you any trouble.
@dbanty
Brilliant!!
I just did this, and BOOM -- works.
Thanks for the swift feedback.
@dbanty ftw!
Out of curiosity, do I close this issue or someone from Rigetti will do this?
We'll wait to close this one until we also get a new binary release for newer versions of Debian, since that's the underlying issue. I view pinning our Docker image as a workaround.
The libffi.so.6 issue is also asked on stack exchange (https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61875869/ubuntu-20-04-upgrade-python-missing-libffi-so-6)
I just installed it following the direction on the link and now i have both libffi.so.6 and libffi.so.7 installed and qvm and quilc work fine.
