It is currently a struggle to figure out how to bind a vector of parameters to a circuit.  There is no example in the tutorials for doing this (that I could find) and the only example that I could make work is the following:
However this is confusing because one is temped to do either qc.bind_parameters({'th': np.random.random(15)}) or qc.bind_parameters({ParameterVector('th', 15): np.random.random(15)}), both of which do not work.  Moreover, inputting any key value one wants does not raise an exception, which makes things even more difficult to debug.
Finally the returned parameters in qc.parameters are not in numeric order that also makes things a mess, e.g."
If you do
I think that should work. But yeah I agree it's cumbersome (especially bc that ordered_parameters only exists on the NLocal circuits bc they were needed for consistency & backward compatibility on the variational algos). However we're looking to make parameters sorted and then we could facilitate binding
Yeah, so it does seem that some circuits in the circuit library accept arrays as inputs to assign-parameters, but it is not universal.  Namely the main circuit class does not.  This leads to confusion and breaking code because one could pass an array in one case and then try their own circuit and it would fail.  So currently the situation is that either dicts are used everywhere, which as stated above is not the easiest thing to do currently, or one has to know the implementation details of Qiskit for knowing when a "circuit" is one that takes a array or not;  There is no unique def for quantum circuit methods in Qiskit at the moment.
Hi. I created this quick patch for addressing this enhancement request.
It seems to work on the proposed scenario. Let me know if this would be a viable code change and I'll be happy to work on a PR.
I agree that we should enhance assigning parameters to circuits, right now it can be quite cumbersome. But I think we should properly discuss how we want to do that, such that we don't end up with too many different possibilities.
The simplest manner to assign an array of values, in my opinion would just be
This would be very convenient for usage with optimizers and optimization algorithms in Qiskit, such as the VQE.
If you want to only bind certain parameters, we could use the current scheme
Personally I'd be fine if that'd work with a string as well, since parameter names are unique in circuits.
The first 'anonymous' assign to just an array requires a notion of parameter order. We don't have that at the moment but we're working on this with @ewinston 🙂
So I think the following would cover @nonhermitian cases and would be very user-friendly to go forward:
We could split this in two PRs and add assign per name now and the array-assign later. But we should get more opinions on if this could break some things, e.g. from @kdk
Hi. I created this quick patch for addressing this enhancement request.
It seems to work on the proposed scenario. Let me know if this would be a viable code change and I'll be happy to work on a PR.
Thanks @paolob67 , this looks like a good approach. Can you open a PR and we can discuss it further there?
Yes no prob. I'll work on adding a couple of test cases and then I'll create a PR. Thanks.
