Is your feature request related to a use case or problem? Please describe.
Docstrings are a returning issue on PRs, it would be great if we could automate the feedback on them as well for Google style docstrings.
Describe the solution you'd like
Setup the docstyle and docparams plugins.
What is the urgency from your perspective for this issue? Is it blocking important work?
P2 - we should do it in the next couple of quarters
@balopat :  I'd like to help out in this endeavour since I've some experience in RTD & Sphinx.  Would you still be needing help?
Hi @divya-mohan0209 - that would be great! Our .pylintrc lives under dev_tools/conf. We are following Google style.  Please raise a PR and we can discuss the breakages and how to fix them, which flag to turn on or off!
The new PR for this issue is: #4267
OK, an incremental linter was too intrusive as it requires a significant refactor for even individual files.  I vote for @balopat 's Idea to  use # pylint: disable=missing-raises-doc for all the cases where the refactor is not trivial.
Sounds good to me! :) Thank you for bearing with us through this!
This is follow up from discussion on PR #4345
@mpharrigan @balopat Maybe we should go through the docparams lint rules and decide which ones we actually want. Here they are with notes:
differing-param-doc (W9017) - "%s" differing in parameter documentation Please check parameter names in declarations.
10 occurrences
differing-type-doc (W9018) - "%s" differing in parameter type documentation Please check parameter names in type declarations.
0 occurrences
multiple-constructor-doc (W9005) - "%s" has constructor parameters documented in class and init Please remove parameter declarations in the class or constructor.
0 occurrences
missing-param-doc (W9015) - "%s" missing in parameter documentation Please add parameter declarations for all parameters.
In a current PR, reviewers have said this would be useful
missing-type-doc (W9016) - "%s" missing in parameter type documentation Please add parameter type declarations for all parameters.
38 occurrences
missing-raises-doc (W9006) - "%s" not documented as being raised Please document exceptions for all raised exception types.
Already implemented
useless-param-doc (W9019) - "%s" useless ignored parameter documentation Please remove the ignored parameter documentation.
0 occurrences
useless-type-doc (W9020) - "%s" useless ignored parameter type documentation Please remove the ignored parameter type documentation.
0 occurrences - no cost and some benefit
missing-return-doc (W9011) - Missing return documentation Please add documentation about what this method returns.
218 occurrences
missing-return-type-doc (W9012) - Missing return type documentation Please document the type returned by this method.
105 occurrences
missing-yield-doc (W9013) - Missing yield documentation Please add documentation about what this generator yields.
118 occurrences
missing-yield-type-doc (W9014) - Missing yield type documentation Please document the type yielded by this method.
64 occurrences
redundant-returns-doc (W9008) - Redundant returns documentation Please remove the return/rtype documentation from this method.
12 occurrences
redundant-yields-doc (W9010) - Redundant yields documentation Please remove the yields documentation from this method.
1 occurrence
cc @MichaelBroughton
My opinion:
We should enable in ascending order of occurrence, imo
How many occurrences of missing-raises-doc were there?
I'm not sure, I'm guessing it was somewhere around 100.  Haha, I also think I don't have the willpower to make it through > 200 occurrences.
This has created 13 pages of files with TODOs!  I'm going to start hacking on them, it's a good way for me to read code that has been added since I stopped paying as much attention :)
