The example program ipe.qasm:
https://github.com/Qiskit/openqasm/blob/main/examples/ipe.qasm
contains the following code:
In this example program there are two lines which are semantically unresolvable:
and
Line 29 is unresolvable because an angle cannot be indexed into its own bits.
Line 32 is unresolvable because bitshift operations on non-integer values have no semantics.
Whether the underlying type of an angle is defined as fixed-point or floating-point is irrelevant:
The only possible semantic interpretation that I could come up with when reading those two lines of code is:
Which version of the spec does this refer to?  I seems that for more than a year, the spec says something like: angle[n] has much of the semantics of an unsigned integer. It also has some more in order to interpret it as an angle. Any fixed-pointedness comes from this latter part of the semantics.
Support for bit shift is here:

Which version of the spec does this refer to? I seems that for more than a year, the spec says something like: angle[n] has much of the semantics of an unsigned integer. It also has some more in order to interpret it as an angle. Any fixed-pointedness comes from this latter part of the semantics.
Since the Spec - or the Language - do not use Version Numbers, it is impossible to refer to a specific Version Number.
The Spec was updated to reflect the problem described in this Problem Report after this Problem Report was opened.
As it currently stands, the Spec still does not address the unanswered question of precision.
This says nothing about precision, or about the implicit or explicit conversion of a from an angle type to a fixed-point or an IEEE-754 floating-point value.
The Spec was updated to reflect the problem described in this Problem Report after this Problem Report was opened.
I was imprecise. In my mind I was thinking of commit hash to this repo.
The closest bisections I can find in the git log for types.rst are:
and
Which also corresponds to my own recollections.
So, this Problem Report was opened for the Version of the Spec prior to commit  hash 13055bed9263d0b29f1eaf99e165628bc6955122 from 03/30/2022.
