We ask that you make a short (4-6 minutes) tutorial video about some aspects of using scqubits. This video could include going through and explaining one of the tutorial notebooks that have already been written (see here for examples), or alternatively creating a custom notebook and explaining what it does.
Some examples of what such a video would look like are shown here or here.
Good candidates for notebooks to discuss would be:
demo_qutip_fluxoniumreset.ipyn
demo_qutip_fluxoniumcz.ipynb
scqubits_paper_source_code.ipynb
demo_customcircuit.ipynb
Alternatively putting together a "custom" notebook that includes some new discussion that we don't yet cover, or even some combination of what's already been done would also be great. An example might be a notebook that explores performing a gate operation on a noisy transmon qubit (such a notebook would include parts of content presented in here and here).
Specific requirements:
Choose a scqubits tutorial notebook from here or alternatively write your own - it could be some combination of content from ones that already exist.
Reply with a comment to this bounty that includes a few sentences (could be in point-form, i.e., a sentence per section in the notebook you want discuss) that outlines what your tutorial would cover and what which aspects of the code and relevant physics you aim to highlight.
Put together a 4-6 minute video
Either upload the video to youtube and provide a link to it. Alternatively provide a link to where the video could be downloaded from (e.g. dropbox). In the latter case, please explicitly write that you agree that we upload your video to the the @scqubits youtube channel.
Dear Peter,
I want to work on this video. My idea to cover is the following:
Explain the circuit quantization procedure.
Give the procedure to quantize any circuit (step by step given the in the Quantum Information & Quantum Optics by Juan Jose Ripoll). Starting with the differential equation, find the Lagrangian and the Hamiltonian, and finally, give the common examples from the LC oscillator and the transmon (C+JJ).
Show the ability to scqubits to calculate and give any custom_circuit quantization. Show the same equation given theoretically.
Show & explain the scqubits GUI to finally encourage people to try the library.
My idea is to do a custom notebook that explains and covers this topic step by step, explaining how to design in scqubits. Let me know if this is enough or if you have more ideas to include.
Time constraints? I think the video will be longer than the 4-6 min (4-6 min explaining the theory and 4-6 min explaining scqubits). Is there a problem with having a longer video?
Best,
Kevin J.
Hi Kevin... what you propose sounds great!
As far as the length of the video - I would propose splitting the video into two parts... each about 4-6 mins long - that seems to work better with people's short attention spans (just a reality of things these days  ;-), but also might make them easier to make.
If you feel rather strongly about a single longer one, however, that would also be fine.
The rest of what you propose reads great - picking custom circuits is a perfect candidate for tutorial videos - good choice!
Please let us know if you have any other questions.
Hi Kevin,
Can I also work on the videos? I am also interested in making tutorial videos.
Hi Kevin,
Can I also work on the videos? I am also interested in making tutorial videos.
Hi Alireza, thank you for your interests in taking this bounty! Just to help clarify, are you interested in collaborating with Kevin to make tutorial videos or you would like work on video(s) by yourself?
We can work together.
Hi Alireza, thanks for your interest in collaborating with scqubits and me!
I already have the two presentations about quantum circuit quantization, and I am planning to record them this weekend. If you already have a video in mind I will absolutely be happy to work with you if not we can come up with another idea using scqubtis; more is better! You can reach me at https://www.linkedin.com/in/kevin-joven/
Hi Kevin,
I added you on Linkedin. Here is mine https://www.linkedin.com/in/ali-ghasemi-46404a87/
We can discuss this more on LinkedIn.
Hi Kevin,
I added you on Linkedin. Here is mine https://www.linkedin.com/in/ali-ghasemi-46404a87/
We can discuss this more on LinkedIn.
Hi I'd also like to work on this! Do let me know!
Dear Peter,
I already upload the videos as "unlisted". Please check the videos and let me know what you think to put the videos to the public. Let me know if there are things that need to be corrected, I will do it as quickly as possible. Also, I would like to read the comments from Tianpu Zhao & Alireza if possible.
Thanks!
Quantum Circuit Quantization Part 1 - Theory: https://youtu.be/ChefdJWovYc
Quantum Circuit Quantization Part 2 - scQubits: https://youtu.be/Tv3nLKb66OE
Best,
Kevin J.
Thanks @KevinJoven11.
Will get back to you in a day or two (but from a quick glance, they look great!)
btw, @KevinJoven11  will you want to have these uploaded to the scqubits channel (https://www.youtube.com/@scqubits4175/videos ), or to your own? either would be fine.
Dear Peter,
I am okay with both. Just let me know what you prefer!
Best,
Kevin J.
Hi Kevin,
Your videos look really nice. Thank you very much for your effort! I like the idea to start with studying the quantum version of the LC resonator in the first video, then shows how to model LC resonator and transmon with the Circuit module. I think these videos can certainly be further polished and improved, but your work might already be qualified for claiming the bounty (it's up to Jens/Peter's decision).
Here are things I think could be improved. Maybe for some of these points you might have your own considerations/justifications, I would really love to hear your thoughts as well!
For the first video:
For the second video:
Thanks again @KevinJoven11 for working on the videos, and thanks @ZhaoTianPu for your comments.
@KevinJoven11, if you have it in you to address some of the comments from @ZhaoTianPu, that would of course be great, but since we know that these sorts of videos take a long time to make, we are also fine accepting them as-is, as far as the bounty goes.
As far as publishing them, what might be best, is if you could make them publically available on your channel, and maybe leave a link somewhere where the source files could be downloaded from (so that down the road, if it makes sense, Jens could also put them up on the @scqubits channel).
Agh.. and one suggestion: at least for the second video, maybe make sure that "scqubits" is mentioned somewhere in the title, so that the video is easier to find via youtube's search machinery.
thanks
Dear Peter,
Thanks for your feedback and to Tianpu Zhao as well!
I already made the video for public and put in the title scQubits and anyone can download the repo from the link in the video below.
I am planing to improve the videos as well.
Thank you so much,
Kevin J.
Thanks @KevinJoven11
We can consider this bounty as closed then.
Hi @petergthatsme , @KevinJoven11 mentioned that I get in touch with you. I made a tutorial video and sent it to Kevin. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cRNOm5AM6zc
This is an unlisted video, and I tried to keep the style of the videos to keep the consistency. Please let me know, if you have comments on it
Hi Alireza, thank you so much for your contributions. Your video looks really nice! I will make time today to watch it and provide my thoughts/suggestions.
I am not sure if you can get the bounty at this time (I hope you will be able to, based on what you've worked)! This would be better answered by @petergthatsme.
Thanks for your work on the video @Algh89110377   - it's very nice. Please feel free to make it public.
A couple of minor points:
I asked the powers that be at the Unitary Fund, and it looks like they will be able to award both you and @KevinJoven11   with the rewards - which is great (thanks Unitary Fund!).
@KevinJoven11 after discussing with colleagues I hope to correct myself: it is ok to talk first about equations of motion, then the Lagrangian and Hamiltonian. As long as the Euler-Lagrange equation obtained from Lagrangian agrees with the equations of motion, then it is fine.
Dear @ZhaoTianPu ,
Thank you so much for your feedback! In the future, I will explain this tutorial more deeply as soon as I have more experience working with superconducting circuits!
Best,
Kevin
