Running 3.0 on Windows, kc705 with nist_qc2 gateware
After an FPGA reset, the GUI TTL status indicators aren't updated anymore until the dashboard is restarted (which fixes all the issues described below).
The displayed directions are what they were before the reset, rather than "IN" for all channels. Clicking one of the "OVR" buttons produces the output
and further clicks produce
The TTLs can be accessed normally from within experiments.
Sometimes (I'm afraid I couldn't determine how to reproducibly provoke this), the exception raised by the first click on "OVR" causes the dashboard to terminate:
By "reset", you mean rebooting the FPGA board, not self.core.reset()?
Can you file another issue about the second problem, if possible with more details about how to reproduce it?
Yes, "reset" refers to rebooting the FPGA board.
I have tried to find a way to reproducibly cause the dashboard to crash, but couldn't so far. When it happens, it's right after the first click on an "OVR" button after the FPGA reset, but it doesn't happen every time. If I can find out what makes the difference, I'll file a separate issue on it.
Yes, "reset" refers to rebooting the FPGA board.
Generally the dashboard does not recover by itself from servers dying, instead it logs an error and requires a restart. It does the same if the master dies. We can have it reconnect automatically (as a rule), but it's a bit of work to ensure that all data (in applets etc.) is properly synchronized.
This wasn't a problem in ARTIQ-2 because moninj was using a UDP-based connectionless protocol, which had other issues, so ARTIQ-3 switched to a new TCP-based protocol.
@jonaskeller Are you still able to crash the dashboard by clicking the moninj buttons?
I just tried again, and this time it seems reproducible (but this might be "luck").
I'm running artiq 3.6 py_42+git3e7cdaa5, nist_qc2 gateware, Windows 7 64bit
The recipe is
reset the FPGA while the dashboard is running
run this experiment:
click any OVR button in the TTL panel
This crashes the dashboard with the following output
The device_db entry for ttl0 is
A couple notes from intensive use in the field on windows and linux for a couple weeks:
I'd like to nominate that for 4.1.
There is now a reproducible way to crash the dashboard:
As an alternative solution, we could gray out the entire interface when a connection fails, and display a message about which connection failed and telling the user to fix the situation and restart the dashboard.
