This follows from me looking into why I could not successfully run "make doctest" during my last PR, while it ran fine here in Github.
On my Windows machine using fresh Anaconda environments and fresh clones of the repo, "make docs" and "make doctest" runs fine if I use Python 3.7, but I cannot run "make docs" if I am running Python 3.8.
I was just going to add a note in CONTRIBUTING.md that "make docs" needs to be run before "make doctest," because I realized that was my issue when using 3.7. But I would like to also be able to either mention Windows developers need to make sure they're using 3.7 or implement a fix to this.
In Windows,
Use the about() function to summarize information on operating system, python version and dependencies.
Additional Python Environment Details (conda list):
Hello @andre-a-alves, thank you for your interest in Mitiq!
If this is a bug report, please provide screenshots and/or minimum viable code to reproduce your issue, so we can do our best to help get it fixed. If you have any questions in the meantime, you can also ask us on the Unitary Fund Discord.
I am unable to replicate your error. But it does seem like circ-google is not installed. This is not specified as a dependency in either requirements.txt or dev_requirements.txt. In addition, none of the requirements for circ-google are installed in your environment.
The installation guide also seems a bit ambiguous by trying to state that if you install one, the other one is installed as well. I am a bit confused as to if this statement refers to installing the pre-release version only.
Edit - I was able to replicate the error in Linux for Python 3.8.5. If I install circ-google then the test passes. Did this module get installed in Python 3.7 ? The docs build fails below due to an issue with sphinx-autodoc (an older version is installed).
I tried again by manually adding those two modules (cirq-google and cirq-core) before installing everything, and I still get the docs failure on Windows - error message below.
Even without me adding those modules, cirq-core shows up in conda list for both 3.7 and 3.8 after pip install -e ..
I am going to keep working on it and document any progress here, especially since I think there are only two of us developing in Windows where this error is showing up.
@andre-a-alves I actually work in Linux 😄 . I do not think the issue is with what system is being used but with Sphinx and other Sphinx based packages.
When I tried to use make docs with just circq-core installed, I did get the same error as you. So, I added cirq-google to the requirements file and the build passed locally (on Python 3.8.5). But it fails on Github due to an issue with an older version of Sphinx. I did try to bump up to the latest version but pip gets lost trying to resolve the dependencies.
I think we need to figure out which newer version of Sphinx works with other doc dependencies or if the error is specific to Python's version. A workflow run uses Python 3.8.10.
@purva-thakre That makes sense. I can start looking into Sphinx versions unless you've already started going down that rabbit hole. I know this morning I briefly looked at whether version 4 would work, but it appeared to have a few dependency issues to work out, and I didn't have the time to pull on that thread.
unless you've already started going down that rabbit hole
@andre-a-alves Not yet. You are more than welcome to give it a try.
I cannot speak to errors on Linux, but shortly I will be attaching a PR to solve this problem for Windows. As discussed in the meeting yesterday, the cirq.google Module Not Found error is ignored.
The inability to run make docs or make doctest in Windows if the environment is using Python 3.8 stems from asyncio, which changed its default event loop beginning with Python 3.8. The new event loop does not have support for Unix-style APIs that are used by Tornado, and consequently Jupyter - a problem that is more significant when run on a non-Unix-like system. Fixing the issue just requires the user to modify a few lines in asyncio's __init__.py file within their environment.
Regarding the Sphinx version, myst-parser does not yet support Sphinx 4.0, which only left beta earlier this month. We are using 3.5.4, which is the latest pre-4.0 version.
If I install circ-google then it fails similar to above test PR because of circ.google. It's great you found that it was a Windows issue.
