Upon fresh installation of tensorflow quantum in a conda environment, importing tensorfloq_quantum gives:
In more detail:
Other information:
OS: Ubuntu 19.10
Package Versions:
Hi, which directions did you follow to install tensorflow and tensorflow-quantum ? I see that your GIT_VERSION is unknown. Usually on vanilla pip installations you get a known git version of some kind. Could you give some more details on the steps you went through for your installation so I could try to recreate the issue ?
Thanks for the reply. The steps includes:
I am not sure why there would be a GIT_VERSION as I did not pull the code from git?
I think I've managed to recreate the issue and get to the bottom of things. When I followed your instructions and then ran conda list I saw:
Notably the channel is not pypi, which leads me to believe that conda may have rolled their own version of tensorflow that might not have been compiled with the appropriate flags needed to support tensorflow quantum. These flags are present in our supported pip release of tensorflow 2.1.0. To work around this you can do this:
I tested this on my machine and things worked. I have virtually zero experience with conda, but I'd say the problem of getting tensorflow quantum to work with conda install would ultimately be up to the conda community to get tfq built on their platform such that it is compatible with whatever version of tensorflow they have.
Does the above fix work on your machine ?
Hi Micheal, sorry for getting back late. Yes using tensorflow from pip solved the issue. Thanks!
I implemented all these, but still error occurs.
I have one issue when import tensorflow_quantum as tfq the  error message as below:
tensorflow.python.framework.errors_impl.NotFoundError: /usr/lib/python3/dist-
packages/tensorflow_quantum/core/ops/_tfq_simulate_ops.so: undefined symbol: _ZN10tensorflow8OpKernel11TraceStringEPNS_15OpKernelContextEb
My platform is pi4B and I have built tensorflow_quamtum source successful
This looks like an issue with ABI mismatch like the one encountered in #330. If you are sure that you have all the right versions for the latest TFQ (TF 2.3.1 , TFQ 04.0 (or 0.5.0dev), cirq 0.9.1) and have built from source with the correct flags (-D_GLIBCXX_USE_CXX11_ABI=0) then it may just come down to a discrepancy between the pi4B and whatever OS it is running.
As a final note: I will say also that we don't officially test or support TFQ on pi4B so past these sorts of suggestions I don't know if I can offer too much more insight.
the same issue i am getting, is there any solution for the same.
Yes, see any number of the above linked issues, e.g. the one right above your comment solved this issue: #777
