Running an experiment using version 2.4 on windows 7 64 bit from the conda repository fails with the following error:
The cygwin1.dll dll can't be found.
This can be fixed by downgrading the binutils-or1k-linux package to version 2.25.1-4 with:
No, it needs to be rebuilt at version 2.25.1-5 using msys instead of cygwin.
Also, it's or1k-linux-ld, not -id.
Package rebuilt.
Thanks!
No, actually, it doesn't work.
The package does work now.
No, it doesn't.
Still happens with binutils-or1k-linux 2.27 5.
No, it doesn't. I have provisioned a completely fresh Windows machine just now and installed only the binutils-or1k-linux package, and it doesn't crash because of cygwin1.dll:

And I can actually artiq_compile code with these binutils.
Well @mingshenli does have a Windows machine on which this package is installed, and ld fails due to missing cygwin1.dll. Interestingly, this only happens when the experiment is run by the master, artiq_run and artiq_compile are working correctly. I thought ld was now completely independent from cygwin?
Though that behavior may be due to the cygwin1.dll he put in the device db directory as a workaround.
@mingshenli To double-check: can you activate the artiq conda environment, go to d:\artiq1 and run or1k-linux-ld --version?
It is completely independent from cygwin. It is compiled as a MinGW application, which means it's windows native. What you're describing seems like the result of master being run from a different conda environment with older binutils package.
yes, I find the or1k-linux-ld.exe and run it, but failed because " the cygwin1.ddl can not be found."
This must be an old conda package. If all else fails, you can remove your entire conda install and start over.
@mingshenli did you run it with the current directory being d:\artiq1? where you put cygwin1.dll.
@whitequark same conda environment that makes artiq_run work.
Is there another miniconda installation in PATH?
The cygwin1.dll was at C: where it was install. I create a file in D: and now it seems work. (a cmd window flash)
@mingshenli Still, what is the output of or1k-linux-ld --version?
nothing happened after I run start C:\ProgramData\Anaconda3\envs\artiq-3.5\bin\or1k-linux-ld.exe   except a cmd window flash.
I only have those on  my computer.

Please follow the instructions carefully:
activate the artiq conda environment, go to d:\artiq1 and run or1k-linux-ld --version
Do this in an already open cmd window.
do as  follow?
activate artiq-3.5
cd D:\artiq1
or1k-linux-ld --version
Yes.
but it didn't work because 'or1k-linux-ld --version' is not a command or file
Strange, if you see this screenshot it works:
#935 (comment)
is it have any influence on  running  artiq_run or other command uploading the python file to the kc-705 board?
