Please see the log here:
quilc-failure.txt
Version: 1.26.0
FreeBSD 13.1
Please see the log here:
quilc-failure.txt
Version: 1.26.0
FreeBSD 13.1
Do you have libffi installed on your system? It (and a few other things, like libblas and liblapack) are prerequisites.
libffi, blas, and lapack are installed.
The issue here is that SBCL/CFFI are not finding it (libffi) in any standard search paths.
It is installed as /usr/local/lib/libffi.so
It is installed as /usr/local/lib/libffi.so
Are you certain that's findable by your SBCL+CFFI?
Try, as a test, pushing "/usr/local/lib/" onto cffi:*foreign-library-directories* before loading QUILC per this documentation.
I also notice that
Unable to load any of the alternatives:
("libffi.so.7" "libffi32.so.7" "libffi.so.6" "libffi32.so.6" "libffi.so.5"
"libffi32.so.5")
doesn't list a plain libffi.so, which sounds silly and wrong.
So a second thing to try is to symlink your libffi.so to libffi.so.X for a reasonable integer X.
I hope some of this advice is helpful... I don't have a non-Mac BSD system to try on.
The number is "8": /usr/local/lib/libffi.so.8
These names with numbers shouldn't be listed.
The newest CFFI has 8 listed. Here is the relevant source code. You could try vendoring CFFI to your Quicklisp local-projects directory.
You could also add to the list of complaints about CFFI not being updated with a release here. :)
Why doesn't quilc use this version?
Why doesn't quilc use this version?
This is not QUILC's decision. This is a dependency of a dependency that QUILC uses—a quasi-standard library for interacting with  C libraries—and the dependency^2 is responsible for loading this library.
After the previous issue (with libffi.so) is patched there's this failure now:
This patch helped:
Maybe you can apply this upstream.
After this I am able to build quilc on FreeBSD.
Yep, recent SBCLs need more memory while compiling. Probably a good idea to apply that patch.
Sorry for the difficulties but I'm glad you got it to work out!
Sorry for the difficulties but I'm glad you got it to work out!
No problem!
I created the FreeBSD port for quilc:
Above I was able to build quilc-1.26.0
But the current master fails:
Do you have a local copy of MAGICL?
Yes:
