I was trying to build a circuit for SAT problem with this configuration file.
test_sim.zip
This cnf file proved to be solvable with Lingeling, which may mean that the content itself has no big problem.
However,  it shows the following error
Simply one line of code in Jupyter Notebook
It should produce the oracle. Since it works for the following file.
test2.zip
I have no idea what is going on here...
With tweedledum-1.1.1, this seems fixed. Please, reopen otherwise.
I do not think the problem was resolved with tweedledum-1.1.1 . I am facing the exact same problem using the tweedledum version 1.1.1. As the original post suggests, the oracle = PhaseOracle.from_dimacs_file('test_sim.cnf') works just fine with CNF files with 8 variables or less but gives the index error as soon as the number of variables in the CNF file goes up to 10.
@1ucian0 I got exactly the same problem like QubitDaddy, when number of variables in the CNF file is greater or equal 10.
Qiskit version = 0.31.0
tweedledum = 1.1.1
Python version = 3.8.5
Operating system = macOS Big Sur 11.2
Reopening. Let's have another look
I think that the problem seems to be stemming from reading the 0 in the 10th variable and interpreting it as the end of clause as the notes in the code say: "Character 0 (zero) marks the end of each clause." , which is throwing the whole format out of its order... I could be wrong though.
I think that the problem seems to be stemming from reading the 0 in the 10th variable and interpreting it as the end of clause as the notes in the code say: "Character 0 (zero) marks the end of each clause." , which is throwing the whole format out of its order... I could be wrong though.
Well spotted. The problem lies on one of tweedledum's dependency lorina and seems that was fixed: hriener/lorina#67
I will update tweedledum.
I was still able to trigger the same bug by using the following dependencies:
Problem used
Traceback:
Looks like Bruno has merged a fix to Tweedledum's main branch, but there hasn't been a 1.1.2 or 1.2 release yet to put the feature out into the world.  You can install Tweedledum from source though (see https://github.com/boschmitt/tweedledum), which should hopefully work immediately.
At any rate, this is the responsibility of Tweedledum, so I'll close the issue on this repository.
