As of now the preferred way to install qutip on Mac OS X is using MacPorts.
Could you add a formula to Homebrew,
https://github.com/mxcl/homebrew ?
By most users, Homebrew is considered better solution than MacPorts. See e.g. here http://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/32724/what-are-pros-and-cons-for-macports-fink-and-homebrew.
Hi Piotr. Yes sure, sounds like a good idea, I'm looking into it.
Hi Robert!
An even more Python-friendly alternative would be to allow pip installing it (i.e. adding to https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip). As homebrew is for everything on Mac,
while pip is for Python stuff (and is system-independent).
(However, I have no experience it writing installs for any of them.)
On 31 Oct 2013, at 15:15, Robert Johansson notifications@github.com wrote:
Hi Piotr. Yes sure, sounds like a good idea, I'm looking into it.
—
Reply to this email directly or view it on GitHub.
I started to look into pypi a while ago and plan to add qutip there before the next release. However qutip depends on a C compiler and optionally fortran compiler, and some changes in our setup.py file is required to get it to work with pip, so it hasn't been done yet. It's on the todo list though.
As for homebrew, it doesn't seem to have many of the requirements that qutip needs, such as numpy and scipy etc. For some reason they are in a separate homebrew repository..  Without these it wouldn't make much sense to submit a qutip formula to the official homebrew repository.
I've uploaded qutip 2.2.0 to the pypi index, however it builds without support for the fortran mcsolve for now:
https://pypi.python.org/pypi/qutip
Thanks, it works!
(And actually, PyPi is a better solution. (As you were using MacPorts, and its direct replacement is Homebrew, I though that there is a particular reason it won't work with pip install qutip.))
Thanks for testing it.
Macports still have some advantages over pip, since it supports dependencies on non-python packages. I'm not sure if installing qutip via pip from on a fresh system will resolve all dependencies properly (will have to test this more carefully before next qutip release). Homebrew looks interesting from this point of view (I don't like that everything has to be built from source with macports..) but it is a bit unfortunate that not all qutip dependencies are in the standard homebrew repository.
In my opinion macports is still better than homebrew.  Once the homebrew matures a bit this may change but currently macports is the way to go in my opinion.
