Installing qiski-aer via pip is fails with error code C1060: compiler is out of heap space. Failure is always on pybind_result.hpp
Checked system resources and confirmed that the system is not running out of memory, the compiler seems to be hitting
some limit.
Attaching a snippet of the output here:
If more of the output is required, let me know (it is quite long...)
execute pip install qiskit-aer
For qiskit-aer to install via pip.
Reading https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/error-messages/compiler-errors-1/fatal-error-c1060?view=msvc-170 leads me to believe that a compiler switch passed to MSVC might allow the compiler to use more memory when loading header files?
We often encounter this error while testing on github for Windows. I think the only the solution for this error is to try until it runs without this error...
As a minor aside: were you intending to build from source?  We don't have binary wheels published for Python 3.12 right now, so if you just wanted to use Aer, then you should be able to easily pip install qiskit-aer from a pre-built binary if you use Python 3.8 to 3.11.
@jakelishman Yeah, just need to be able to use it and I happened to be on 3.12, so building from source is what I was trying. I did try downgrading to 3.10 (it happened to be on my machine, so I gave it a shot) but it failed to pip install quiskit. I didn't dig very far on that failure.
I'll give 3.8, 3.9, and/or 3.11 a shot though and report back how that goes.
Huh, a failure to pip install Qiskit is rather surprising - that should be very easily supported.  Just checking the obvious: quiskit was a typo for the comment, right?  It should be pip install qiskit.  If you can show the error for the pip install qiskit failure, that would be good - I've not heard of any problems with it before.
@jakelishman sorry, yes that was a typo.
I had success with python 3.11 for installing qiskit-aer. I can try to repro the 3.10 issue for pip install qiskit - if I can, I'll open a separate issue for that. Thanks for the help!
