The current implementation (qibo v0.1.15 and qibojit v0.0.10) of the channel gates.KrausChannel breaks when the Kraus operators are singular (i.e. non-invertible). For example, for the amplitude damping channel. Here a snippet of code to reproduce this issue:
The error can be traced back to a call of the function matrix = np.linalg.inv(gate.asmatrix(self)).
This seems to me to be a bug, and not only a NotImplementedError for singular Kraus operators, since it could happen that the Kraus operators are non-singular yet non-unitary.
This is so because what is needed for the application of Kraus operators is the dagger (conjugate transpose), which in general is not equal to the inverse.
I think that implementing this would also replace computing the inverse of unitary Kraus operators by "brute force" by just taking the dagger, which should be faster if the Kraus operators are large.
@DiegoGM91 fix implemented in qiboteam/qibojit#128
@DiegoGM91 However, I don't think it's as simple as just replacing inv for dagger for one reason: qibojit uses inv in order to avoid creating multiple copies of the state, so it reverses the implementation of one operator in order to apply the next one in the original state. If dagger doesn't equate inv and inv doesn't even exist, them it can't reverse back the state. I think the least disruptive solution is to use pseudo-inverse instead.
Thanks for the quick response @renatomello!
However, I don't think the pseudo-inverse is an option here, as this will not implement the desired action for singular Kraus operators. (neither the inverse or pseudo-inverse will for non-unitary invertible Kraus operators)
If implementing the adjoint is not simple, then I guess the solution is checking for unitarity of the Kraus operators and throw a NotImplementedError if they are not unitary.
Althought it would be great and very useful to have this functionality in qibo!!
@DiegoGM91 I think there is another way to solve this. I just realized that we had the same issue when implementing the ReadoutErrorChannel. The solution was to default to creating a copy of the original state. Something similar can be done here.
That'd be great. Thanks!
@DiegoGM91 solution implemented in #968 and merged to the branch in #963. Will be in the master branch when #963  and qiboteam/qibojit#127 are merged.
