In the attempt to remove from_dict (see #652, #720), it seems that the visualizers use JSON via transpiler (called with format='json'). We are moving to a transpiler that returns a DAG (and a property set). Visualizers should move out of using JSON. I guess, they should use DAG. Probably, that's a big refactor...
I'm not super familiar with the DAG class but I don't think it will be too bad to convert it. @1ucian0 you're more familiar with the text drawer (I assume it works the same way), but the latex drawer and matplotlib only uses the json output to get a list of operations (with arguments and all the details) and then loops over that to generate the diagram. It also uses the headers to build the mapping of labels to bits. We will just need to be able to get is this iterator of operations from the DAG and the mapping. So as long as there is something we can use (or build) to get that information from the DAG it shouldn't be too hard.
But that being said, I really just want to build a method to extract all that information from the raw QuantumCircuit objects. There shouldn't be any reason we need to call transpile on the circuits to visualize it. I think it's just there to be able to pass the basis gates in as an argument and have transpile adjust the circuit. But, I feel this is out of scope for the circuit visualizers and we should deprecate and remove it anyway.
I agree with the premise of this PR. The transpiler format should only work on DAG. 'json' format of the transpiler should be fully removed. Each visualizere should work on a DAG.
The circuit visualizer should work on DAG, but not use the transpiler. That means remove 'basis' argument from the visualizer.
Maybe every visualizar should have the same input. @mtreinish what do you think about using this common function and its output instead of the JSON?
Other option is to have qregs and cregs in the right order and we include the reversebits logic there (def get_instructions(dag, reversebits))
@1ucian0 yeah using a common function (which is what the qiskit.tools.visualization._utils module is for) is exactly what I was advocating for. So instead of calling transpile we just run DAGCircuit.fromQuantumCircuit() and pass the DAG to that function. We'll just need to deprecate the basis kwarg on circuit_drawer() since we won't be able to do that with this approach (which I think is something we should do anyway)
Yes the basis kwarg to circuit_drawer() should be deprecated.
So, do we agree with def get_instructions(dag, reversebits) -> (dag.qregs, dag.cregs, ops)?
Okay... here is the plan:
PR #1187 merged. Converting this issue in an epic to track the spin-offs bugs.
I did not comment on this before (did not see) but as I said on your pr I really don't see the point in making a dag when drawing a circuit. I would like the drawing module to only know about the circuit (even if the internals of the circuit become the dag) the object that we should send to this is the circuit not the dag. It is just a method for taking a circuit and returning a list of operations.
Thanks
mpl: #1272 fixed via #1278
latex_source: #1273 fixed via #1276
text: #1274 fixed via #1280
