Search existing GitHub issues to make sure the issue does not already exist:
https://github.com/xanaduai/strawberryfields/issues
If posting a Strawberry Fields issue, delete everything above the dashed line, and fill
in the template.
If making a feature request, delete the following template and describe, in detail,
the feature and why it is needed.
For general technical details. check out our documentation:
https://strawberryfields.readthedocs.io
Description of the issue - include code snippets and screenshots here
if relevant. You may use the following template below
Expected behavior: (What you expect to happen)
Actual behavior: (What actually happens)
Reproduces how often: (What percentage of the time does it reproduce?)
System information: (post the output of import strawberryfields as sf; sf.about())
Please include any additional code snippets and error tracebacks related
to the issue here.
Any additional information, configuration or data that might be necessary
to reproduce the issue.
Hi @sassan72! Can I ask for some additional information in diagnosing this issue. In particular,
What operating system are you using?
What version of Python are you using? This can be checked by running python --version in the terminal.
In particular, this error message indicates that your combination of Python version/operating system is one that doesn't support our binary builds of The Walrus.
python 3.7, Mac OS Sierra.
Hmm, that should be a supported version of Python 🤔
Are your using the built-in Python that ships with MacOS, or are you using Anaconda?
actually, I installed python with pip install python. i have also Anaconda. do you think the problem is related to my Python library.
Potentially, could you try installing it using Anaconda?
Thanks Josh for helping. you mean by conda install
Hi @sassan72!
One way you could have Python be installed with Anaconda is to create a new environment with Anaconda.
For example, you could create a new Anaconda environment the following way:
conda create --name py36 python=3.6
After that, you could activate this environment on macOS by:
source activate py36
At this step, you will have an environment that has a few basic packages installed. You could then use pip to install TheWalrus.
Let us know how this goes!
Hi @sassan72, any updates here?
I could install it. thanks.
