I get the following error log from pre-commit when I try to commit changes:
How can I fix that issue?
This is a problem with the old pre-commit system. It requires you to install every tool and its dependencies locally. In this case you'll need the Go compiler to build shfmt. So, apt-get install golang should do the trick.
Alternatively, you could just switch to my new precommit system, which works out-of-the-box by running the exotic tools in the cloud.
This is a problem with the old pre-commit system.
Please stop spreading FUD. There is no old or new system. pre-commit allows to run things decentralized, locally, without uploading anything to the cloud (especially not files never intended to be submitted) and is used by millions of projects, while your precommit does it transparently in the cloud (one could almost say covertly since it also uploads things not added to the git index and it doesn't request consent from the user to do so).
It requires you to install every tool and its dependencies locally. In this case you'll need the Go compiler to build shfmt. So, apt-get install golang should do the trick.
Also here only partially correct: of course pre-commit needs to have the tools locally, but all dependencies until now were automatically and transparently installed in isolated environments and did not require user interaction. Yes, unfortunately for running shfmt it seems that currently one has to provide a go interpreter.
One way is to install it on the system, another would be to use asdf and it's golang plugin to manage a separate installation.
@mkrack it seems you have go available as part of the PSI programming env, as gcc-go (rather than the "original" go). I've verified here that a gcc-provided go should also work, but I only had gcc-go-10 available for testing. Could you verify whether there is a $GOROOT environment variable set? This may interfere with things it seems. If there is a /usr/bin/go available it might also help to try this one instead.
If you want to debug it (e.g. without pre-commit), try running GO111MODULE=on go get mvdan.cc/sh/v3/cmd/shfmt@v3.2.2 on the command line.
@oschuett and @dev-zero many thanks for your feedback.
@dev-zero I load the module for gcc 8.3.0 which provides also go version go1.10.3 gccgo and no environment variable $GOROOT or even $GO* is defined, but go env returns values. There is no /usr/bin/go installed. It seems there are remedies for the no go-import meta tags () error, but I did not go into that further and I am not sure if that will solve the issue.
Finally, I bypassed the pre-commit checks using the -n flag and just committed after make pretty leaving all further checks to the PR step which simplifies my workflow.
