I have been running into an issue similar to #806, #1605, and #1623 wherein usage of mesolve produces the attached error.
It seems as if the majority of the users that reported that error had some suspect input parameters leading to slow convergence in integration; to confirm that this wasn't the case I tried running the qubit dynamics QuTiP tutorial, which still produced the same error.
My system specs are as follows: 21.2.0 Darwin Kernel Version 21.2.0: Sun Nov 28 20:29:10 PST 2021; root:xnu-8019.61.5~1/RELEASE_ARM64_T8101 arm64. My package installations can be found here: requirements.txt. These are also listed in the below categories.
Any help would be appreciated.
The evolution should have reproduced the result given in the tutorial notebook.
No response
Hey @lzawbrito,
I tried to reproduce your error on a Linux (Ubuntu) machine. I installed your exact environment (all versions equal) and your provided code runs without a problem. Also the notebook you refer to does not give an error. So it seems to me that it is a problem with macOS.
Did you try to increase nsteps? You can do so by adding an option to the mesolve() function:
output = mesolve(H, psi0, tlist, c_ops, e_ops, options=Options(nsteps=1000))
Note that 1000 is the standard value for nsteps, so you should increase it furhter.
Let me know if increasing nsteps works!
Hi @christian512, thanks for the help! I've increased nsteps for that particular simulation and the integration runs fine without any errors. One caveat is I have not checked the correctness of the result.
On the other hand, as soon as I tried mesolve on a simple Larmor precession problem, mesolve started either (1) throwing the typical ODE integration error or (2) integrating but producing a manifestly incorrect result (the final state is not on the Bloch sphere).
The code I am using is
Which produces
Edit: I have also tried playing around with atol and rtol without any success.
Hi @lzawbrito, I guess that choosing nsteps=1e6 is a pretty big value and that it leads to problems in the ODE integration. However, again running on my system, I get a reasonable output even with these high nsteps:
I guess that this is a problem with SciPy's integrator and your system.  I don't have enough experience with QuTiP to give a more detailed analysis. Maybe someone else knows about this? @BoxiLi
I cannot reproduce this on either Ubuntu or Windows...
nstep only sets the maximally allowed number of time steps. That exception is a quite general one. It only says that the ODE integrator fails. But the Larmor example is really a trivial one and if it fails then something very important must have been contaminated.
If resinstalling in a fresh environment does not work, I can only suggest to debug at the scipy level.
Closing since this is no reproducible currently. Please re-open or reply if this is still an issue.
