When buffer is getting full, the scroll bar in the log gets stuck at the top while new messages are being output.

Works fine here. The scrollbar is not "stuck" at the top, I can move it down. Did you mean you are unable to view previous messages? The log is limited to the latest 1000 messages; we can easily increase that limit.
Sorry, I mean 'stuck' in the sense that with incoming messages the scrollbar goes to the top which makes the most recent messages in the log difficult to read. I can move it down too, but it goes right back up immediately.
It works correctly here with both pyqt4 and pyqt5.
Is the scrollbar's cursor actually moving to the top when a new message arrives? Or do you just see a scrolling happening because old messages get discarded when the buffer is full?
The cursor seems to be moving to the top.
On Tue, Oct 20, 2015 at 10:13 PM, Sébastien Bourdeauducq <
notifications@github.com> wrote:
Is the scrollbar's cursor actually moving to the top when a new message
arrives? Or do you just see a scrolling happening because old messages get
discarded when the buffer is full?
—
Reply to this email directly or view it on GitHub
#151 (comment).
Joe sees this too in today's build of ARTIQ. Do you have a scenario that produces 1000's of lines of log content when you try to reproduce what we observe?

Yes, I wrote an experiment that printed a new message every couple milliseconds.
I can actually reproduce it on my other computer. Intermittently, though (and restarting the GUI stops the scrollbar misbehavior, even though the buffer is still full).
Looks like a Qt bug. It happens even when ARTIQ doesn't touch the scrolling...
How about trimming old messages out of the log beyond whatever depth the QT
widget can handle?
On Wed, Oct 28, 2015 at 7:50 AM, Sébastien Bourdeauducq <
notifications@github.com> wrote:
Looks like a Qt bug. It happens even when ARTIQ doesn't touch the
scrolling...
—
Reply to this email directly or view it on GitHub
#151 (comment).
The trimming is actually the source of the problem. When you remove row 0 of the table (which is what the current code already does to limit the log to 1000 entries), Qt intermittently scrolls to the top.
This is totally a Qt issue. The program below also has the problem. Seems to be triggered by switching the window focus.
Where are you getting your PyQt5 with support for python 3.5? -Joe
On Fri, Oct 30, 2015 at 10:58 AM, Sébastien Bourdeauducq <
notifications@github.com> wrote:
This is totally a Qt issue. The program below also has the problem. Seems
to be triggered by switching the window focus.
import sysfrom PyQt5 import QtCore, QtWidgets
class _Scroller(QtCore.QAbstractTableModel):
def init(self, parent):
QtCore.QAbstractTableModel.init(self, parent)
def main():
app = QtWidgets.QApplication(sys.argv)
if name == 'main':
main()
—
Reply to this email directly or view it on GitHub
#151 (comment).
