Consider the following backend:

Let's create a circuit with a layout:

The drawing is unexpected to me. The layout is non-trivial, for example:
I would expect 14 in the top corner, where the 0 appears.
This bug is probably related with the recently introduced registerless circuits.
I would like to work on this issue.
Hi @singhsanskar202 it looks like there is already a PR open for this issue, feel free to help review the existing PR or pick up another issue 😄
ok
I'm new here. Can I work on this one? I see no PR's for this or Is this issue solved?
I'm new here. Can I work on this one? I see no PR's for this or Is this issue solved?
Hi @Quant02 it looks like someone is already working on this and has opened a PR already. Please choose another issue to work on or reach out to the the first contributor to see if you can work with them or take over the issue if they are no longer up for it 😄
The PR #6648 was not having a lot of movement. @singhsanskar202 or @Quant02, does any of you would like to take over? If you use the code in #6648, remember to co-author it.
I would like to work on it.
Assigned to you @stoicodin, let us know if you have any questions and remember to co-author if you use the code in #6648  😄
@stoicodin Hey, just want to check in to see if you are still working on this issue. Please let us know if you need any help!
Hi @stoicodin, shall we return this issue to the unassigned pool?
Hi, this is my first time here.
I would like to work on the issue.
sure thing @lmpawan10 I'll assign to you 😄
As it is your first time here please remember to read the contributing guide. You may also find this youtube series useful for github tips as well
Hi @javabster, is this issue still open? If so, I would like to work in it as my first issue.
I tried to reproduce the issue and got the following error:
It seems to be caused by the following code in gate_map.py
Removing the initial_layout from this file reproduces the scenario that is described here. But the error persists when trying to use print(circuit). There is probably something wrong with the layout.py file where the initial_layout attribute is not properly defined.
