Description
Right now, a user can only select all dispatches that are in view, and then delete them all.
There is a feature request to
Eg - Assume there are 100 dispatches. With a page size of 10, a select all will only select the shown 10 records. The ask is to let them 1. select all 100. 2. Subsequently delete all 100 at once.
The current delete implementation is shown in the below screenshot with relevant areas highlighted.

Requirements
A dropdown mechanism with different options for delete all is set to be included. Attached screenshot for reference.

Once one of the options are selected from the above, a popup bar will be displayed asking confirmation from the user to perform the delete operation. Note that there is no retrieval option and it is a permanent delete on the UI.
The options on the dropdown will only show the count that is consistent with the current search & filter query. Eg if there are in total 100 dispatches and only 17 starting with 'Expe'. Then when a user searches for 'Expe', a total of 10 records will be displayed in Page 1 with a total of 17 records. The 'Select all' will only apply to the 17 and not 100.
Implementation details
Flow:
https://www.figma.com/file/uob78GrXC0l4iLo6Ux9FJx/OS-UI?node-id=1012%3A32330
Hey team! Please add your planning poker estimate with ZenHub @ArunPsiog @Prasy12
Hi @santoshkumarradha - Pls vet out these details once. Have requested Soc for designs.
just to add a bit, ideally what we want is kind of "select all" and not just delete all. For instance, once filter is enabled, if a user selects "failed" dispatches and chooses the all tick and clicks select all and then delete it etc..
just to add a bit, ideally what we want is kind of "select all" and not just delete all. For instance, once filter is enabled, if a user selects "failed" dispatches and chooses the all tick and clicks select all and then delete it etc..
@santoshkumarradha Pls note that the 'Select all' will only apply to the current searched/queried dispatch list.
This 'Select all 100 dispatches' will only show the count that is consistent with the current search & filter query. Eg if there are in total 100 dispatches and only 17 starting with 'Expe'. Then when a user searches for 'Expe', a total of 10 records will be displayed in Page 1 with a total of 17 records. The 'Select all' will only apply to the 17 and not 100.
@amalanpsiog
