3.0
3.9
FreeBSD
'make install' only installs dependencies and not the project itself.
make install
n/a
No response
You did grab the correct package  with pip this time, right?
Looks to me like the openqasm3 package works okay.
To install from source:
... etc. ...
Hmm, doesn't seem to build the parser correctly.
So the build should work with pip install -e .
And maybe the Makefile in the top directory should be updated.
Now the failure looks like this:
Maybe the best solution is to add setup.py?
Python projects with setup.py are very well behaved. It looks like pip isn't nearly as mature.
This error:
is your mistake, not the install.
You are trying to install into the system directories.
Just create a virtual environment, activate it, and install into the virtual environment.
This error [...] is your mistake, not the install.
No, --root {stage-dir} is specified for pip to install files into.
It ignores the stage directory and attempts to write into $prefix.
What I need is very simple: the project should be installed into a stage directory.
I definitely don't need virtual environment, because (1) I am not planning to run it from the stage directory (2) all dependencies are already installed.
I thought that this command should do it:
cd openqasm/source/openqasm && pip install --root=${STAGEDIR} --prefix=${PREFIX} -e .
but it breaks, see above.
The ultimate purpose is to create a FreeBSD port.
OpenQASM currently has no packages, see the search on Repology, because packaging is either impossible, or very non-obvious.
Does anybody know what is the correct command to install OpenQASM into a stage directory?
I was able to build using the build tool.
Is OpenASM supposed to install an executable?
The OpenQASM repo includes a reference parser, but not a reference compiler.
Using the parser requires understanding the code.
There was a reference compiler written as part of a Qiskit Mentorship in Autumn of 2021.
It was written against an earlier version of the reference parser.
That Mentorship project is here.
@jwoehr
Are there plans to merge the reference compiler into this project?
I do not believe there currently is such a plan, @yurivict
This repository is not primarily a Python package, and the Makefile in the root is purely for helping to build the live specification of the OpenQASM 3 web page.  It is not supposed to build any Python package itself.  The Python package that creates a reference AST and parser for the language is in the source/openqasm directory, which it looks like you found.
I thought that this command should do it [...]
There is a readme included in the Python package's directory, which answers many of the questions in this issue about building the package.  In addition, the package does not require a setup.py file, because it has no dynamic components to its setup, so its entire configuration is in the setup.cfg file.  This is the recommended way of packaging Python projects under PEP 517 using setuptools.  Packages building with a PEP-517 compatible builder (such as pip or build) without an explicit setup.py are equivalent to those that have a setup.py file that contains only import setuptools; setuptools.setup().
There's no logic in the Python package that we provide that should affect the --root, --editable or --prefix options to pip or to setuptools' builders.  (Really, there's no logic at all, only metadata - that's why we don't need a setup.py file.)  If your command isn't doing as you expect, it may be an issue with your choice of options to pip.  It seems odd to me that you'd specify both a --root and --editable, for example.
While it's not really my business, I'm somewhat surprised you find it necessary to try and package this.  It's a pure-Python package with no compiled extensions, so it seems odd to package it at the OS level, rather than just allowing users to use pip.
