I've had to increase the RTIO FIFO depths in the NIST_CLOCK gateware in order to get my sideband cooling pulse sequence to run without underflow errors.  Could you please incorporate the changes in the diff below so that I don't have to continue compiling my own gateware in the future?  (I'm not aware of anyone else using the NIST_CLOCK gateware, so I don't think this would adversely affect anyone.  If I'm wrong, please comment here.)
nist_clock_fifo_patch.txt
For reference, even with my increased FIFO depths the block ram usage is only 47%.
As an aside, I know that @r-srinivas is doing the same thing for NIST_QC2 (see #530), so it might be convenient to him to change those FIFO depths also.
What is that sideband cooling pulse sequence that causes trouble?
@dleibrandt your patch fails timing.
...on master, but passes on release-2.
So this will stay in release-2 and be available with 2.1 unless we have problems with it again, and will not be in 3.x.
@sbourdeauducq any idea why the timing fails?
@sbourdeauducq, the sideband cooling pulse sequence is up to 1000 pulses.  The pulse durations change during the sequence, but the majority are roughly 1 us.  Each pulse consists of turning a ttl on and off and setting a dds frequency and amplitude twice (once at the start and once at the end of the pulse; we do this so that we can keep the AOM on but detune the light from the atomic resonance, thus keeping the temperature of the AOM constant).
I suspect that my underflow problem will be solved once DMA is finished.  Will DMA be included in 3.x, or will it come later?
DMA should be in 3.0.
Support for AD9914 DDS phase modes in DMA sequences is currently unclear though.
@sbourdeauducq I was thinking of submitting a patch for the nist_qc2 gateware as well. Why does the timing fail in 3.0 exactly?
Why does the timing fail in 3.0 exactly?
Failing timing is a regular, semi-random and annoying problem with FPGA tools. I didn't keep the Vivado timing report, you can run the synthesis again to get it and see where the critical paths are in the design.
