Python: 3.8
TFQ: 0.4.0
Hi,
I am trying to get some Hessians from the one of my parameterized quantum circuits. This trainstep works as intended:
Following this example in the TensorFlow 2 docs I was hoping I could get the Hessian with the following code:
But this throws the error:
From which I conclude that calculating gradients of gradients is not supported yet ( I tried the other differentiators as well). Am I out of luck here? Or is there a hack I can use to get the Hessians from the circuit? Thanks! If you need an example where I use this train step I can throw one together.
P.S.
I am in the process of rewriting all my research code to TFQ and so far everything has worked like a charm. No more super slow graph building times and worrying about how to extract stuff the graph with my own TF1 simulator. And the adjoint differentiator in TFQ is amazing as well; I ran a VQE optimization with like 500 parameters the other day without any issues. Great stuff!
Hi Roeland, it's great to hear that your research is benefitting from TFQ!
As for the Hessians of circuits, it is likely that we will add a function to implement the parameter-shift-based Hessian (as in e.g. this work by the Coles group ). Really, this is just applying recursively the parameter shift gradient update rule twice. @zaqqwerty is working on such implementations for second and higher-order gradients and may have a temporary workaround leveraging some of the recent methods for exposing the innards of TFQ differentiators.
Hi, I also want to compute the Hessian of parameterized circuits using TFQ. Does anyone have a workaround solution? Thanks!
Hello all,
I'm hitting this error but only when running in graph mode.
What's strange is that I'm only asking for gradients (not a Jacobian), and calling the circuit (part of a model) with tf.py_function (so as to run the model in eager mode), so I don't understand where the error is coming from. Is there a way to side-step this?
(My guess is that a differentiation of the gradient is being attempted, but only in graph mode for some reason?)
Thanks in advance.
Hi @therooler @zaqqwerty @QuantumVerd
May I know if you were able to find a solution to calculate Jacobians/Hessians from Parameterized Quantum circuits? I'm facing a similar problem and it would be appreciated if you could provide some insights! Thanks.
