Github can provide reporters with issue templates. Since people continue to create issues with incomplete information we should setup appropriate templates:
I'm not really a fan of templates. How about just adding a friendly reminder:
Hi there, please note that we use Github issues only for development topics.
For user questions you find a better audience at our Forum.
When reporting a problem, please include the full error message and possibly your arch and input file.
well, me neither and I for sure don't want to make it too complex, but a simple reminder for each type of issue what kind of information we need to be able to help
Generally, I think the majority of issues we get is fine.
Multiple templates force the user to pick one, which creates friction and there is no guarantee they'll pick the right one.
Hence, I'd suggest we start with a single template and stick to our label based triage process, which works well.
Within the last week I closed 3 issues due to lack of information (and the reporter failing to repeat), wrong site (forum) and person did not search old issues. All of them could have potentially been prevented by proper templates, sparing time and attention of at least 3 devs and likely reducing frustration on the side of the reporter because they would have gotten the same info earlier.
_Hi there, please note that we use Github issues only for development topics.
Please also mention examples for development topics since this is obviously not clear to everyone (see "level" of questions we get on the mailinglist).
sparing time and attention of at least 3 devs
I'm grateful that you are tending to new issues.  And I'm not saying they are all perfect. I agree, that a simple note with the most common mistakes might help. But creating a bureaucracy of multiple templates will do more harm than good. I think, we just have to accept a certain level of background noise.
Generally, I believe templates are for big projects that receive more issues than they can handle. We are on the opposite end of the spectrum. We are a tiny project and learn about fundamental bugs only years later. So, we should be as welcoming as possible to any feedback we can get.
The point is to tell the user what kind of information we need to be able to help. For that we have to first tell them that there are different classes of issues (which we can now clearly see) by making them select an issue template. For each class of issues we need specific information, that's what we're gonna document in the template issue. No checkbox clicking, not a gazillion of sections for structured reports, just infos for what we need to reduce the number of roundtrips.
As an open source project with unpaid members (at least when it comes to this kind of support work) we can expect from a user a certain amount of legwork. Having to repeat myself over and over again in issues is tiring.
I still think that most new issues we're receiving are very reasonable and we're better off without templates.
