The katas offer a set of programming exercises on quantum computing and reference solutions to them, but we often hear that it would be helpful to have the solutions explained, with the logic steps necessary to arrive from the problem description to the code spelled out. It is especially important for people who go through the katas on their own, without a study group to support them.
To address this, we came up with the idea of "workbooks" - explanations of the solutions to the tasks offered in the katas/tutorials, written in Jupyter Notebook format. You can see the workbook for Superposition kata here - it is still a work in progress, but it already shows the idea of the workbook, the kind of the content it should have and the way it accompanies the kata.
There are several other katas/tutorials that are a great fit for this kind of learning material:
Other katas might fit this scheme a bit worse - for example, Superdense Coding kata follows the structure of superdense coding algorithm, so a tutorial on the end-to-end algorithm would work better than independent explanations of individual tasks.
If there is still help needed I could start working on the first two.
Nobody is working on those yet, help will be most definitely appreciated!
I would love to help too, I'll start working on Measurements!
Sounds great!
@vivanwin and @eloiseespel Please don't feel obliged to do the whole workbook at once (it's a lot of work!) - you can do the first couple of tasks and send them for review to get early feedback. Thank you again for volunteering!
@eloiseespel How are you doing with the Measurements workbook? Do you need any help? Please don't hesitate to reach out with questions! And if you ran out of time after doing just a few tasks, feel free to send them in - Measurements is a massive batch of problems, and doing it in one go is an ambitious endeavor!
@tcNickolas I completed the first 5 tasks early January I thought my commits got tp you but since you have not received them I assume it didn't. I will merge again later today. Since then I have finished the first 10 tasks so I will send that, I would love feedback on those once I figure out how to get my file to you!
Hey @tcNickolas I'd be happy to work on the single qubit gate workbook
@desireevl Sounds great! You can see Superposition workbook as a great example of the kind of explanations we're looking for (although single-qubit gates ones will be much simpler!) and formatting.
Hi @tcNickolas, I can have a look at the multi-qubit gates.
I am having issues with getting the exercises in SingleQubitGates.ipynb to run. I am using version:
Microsoft.Quantum.Standard::0.10.1911.1607
Microsoft.Quantum.Katas::0.10.1911.1607
I am able to run the demo however get the following error for Exercise 1:
/snippet_.qs(1,85): error QS3001: Syntax does not match any known patterns.
@tcNickolas would you have any insight as to what might be the issue?
Hi @desireevl,
I just tried to reproduce your error, for me this only happens when I have not run the first cell %package Microsoft.Quantum.Katas::0.10.1911.1607.
The issue is fixed when you run that cell and try to run your code again. Note that if you use the Binder  Notebook the kernel shuts down every ~10 minutes so you have to rerun that first cell again after the kernel is up again.
Hopefully this helps.
Hi,
I can pickup the Multi-quibt systems workbook.
@vivanwin Sounds great, thank you!
@desireevl Are you still working on the single qubit gate workbook? Please let us know if you ran into any issues.
@tcNickolas Hi yes, sorry for the delay, been a bit hectic with the situation at the moment. Will be finished shortly!
@desireevl I understand, no rush - just wanted to make sure you're not blocked on something I can help you with.
@tcNickolas I would like to pick up the Measurements (tutorials) if that is available.
@tcNickolas I would like to take up Joint Measurements if no one has started already.
Update: Submitted pull request #380 for review.
@manav28 Sounds great, thank you!
If no one has started working on it, I would like to call dibs on Unitary Patterns.
Update: I have added a pull request with the Workbook for Unitary Patterns #377
@desireevl Hi. Are you still working on the single qubit gate workbook? Please let me know - if you have it in some partial state but don't have time to finish it, you're welcome to send PR with this partial, and somebody else will pick it up to finish. (We have an internal Hackathon approaching so we'll have extra volunteers looking for something to do, and this workbook is a good candidate :-))
Hi @tcNickolas, I am so sorry about this. I won't be able to work on this and have unfortunately lost my progress  for what I have done
@desireevl No worries at all, I know how it can be. Thank you for letting me know!
If there are no applicants for GraphColoring yet, I'd like to work on it. Would that be okay?
@Lukious Absolutely, thank you!
@tcNickolas I wouldn't mind taking over Single Qubit Workbook from @desireevl . Its relatively simpler and I agree the Grover's algorithm Kata would be too directly related to the algorithm so maybe its not a priority right now.
Update: I have added a pull request with the SingleQubit Workbook #389
@jainvasu631 Sounds good!
@ArthurConmy I finally finished review of JointMeasurements workbook and merged it to master. Looking at your proposed solution to task 5, it seems to follow quite a different approach, so I think there is value in adding it (together with the math behind it) after the existing solution, as an alternate solution (the way we've done in some Superposition tasks). Let me know if you'd like to do that!
@Lukious How far are you with the graph coloring workbook ? I can help if you want !
@tcNickolas Can I work on the graph coloring workbook then ?
@BrokenDuck Sure, sounds good :-)
(Apologies for the delay replying - I was trying to reach somebody who has expressed interest in the same some time ago, but with no success, so I'm assuming they're not interested any longer.)
@tcNickolas
I was recently going through the QFT Kata Notebook after Section III was added. I felt that while Section I is maybe tutorial-ish,
Section II and especially Section III need a Workbook. None currently exists. The list should be updated with the QFT as well.
PS: I notice that its almost been a year since this Issue was opened (in the last Hacktoberfest). We have almost completed it and it would be extremely cathartic if we could/would be to close it on October 28 (exactly one year after it was created). However, maybe we should expand the list to include new candidate Katas/Tutorial which are ripe and in need of a Workbook.
Example:
@jainvasu631
Agreed on both counts - I was hesitant to add new workbooks here, since this would delay the joy of completing the issue for everyone who worked so hard on the first batch of the workbooks :-)
I'm thinking we can file a new issue, "Create workbooks, batch 2", so that we can both complete this one and have more workbooks to work on.
Which reminds me... @BrokenDuck, how are you doing with the workbook for the graph coloring kata? Let us know if you need any help!
@tcNickolas I am working on it, but school has been quite ruthless (4h of French, Maths and Physics exam), so I am a bit late. I would greatly appreciate some help on part 1, I am more interested in part 2. Do I just commit the partially finished workbook, or are there extra steps ?
@BrokenDuck I think it's fine to send a pull request for a partially finished workbook - we've done that with Superposition, which took a join effort of 4 or 5 people and probably around 10 PRs.
@BrokenDuck  I would love to help out on GraphColoring's Workbook. If you can maybe send a draft PR or share whatever you have worked on, I would be glad to help out. We can divy the remaining work. I could try to finish Part 1 of the Workbook.
@BrokenDuck @jainvasu631 Here's the history of commits on Superposition workbook, as an example of what we did when different people work on different sections.
@tcNickolas @BrokenDuck
Perhaps we could commit Part 1 and Part 2 independently. I am not sure how much progress @BrokenDuck has made on Part 1 but I could build on that and finish it before end of October.
@BrokenDuck How does that sound?
@jainvasu631
I didn't really start part 1, so you could do that part and I can continue on part 2 with the oracle
@tcNickolas @BrokenDuck
I have written the first draft of the Workbook Part 1. The Part of the Workbook can then be merged into this. I have right now created an empty coming soon Solution cells for the tasks in Part 2. Later on these can be filled in.
@tcNickolas I finished the graph coloring workbook, I sent a push request.
With the GraphColoring workbook finished, I officially declare this issue complete! Thank you everybody who contributed to it!
I'll go through the remaining katas and put together a plan for the second batch of the workbooks soon.
