Hi guys,
For arbitrary laser intensity ramps, we would love to be able to make the PID setpoint equal to an analog input -- from either an RF input or an XADC input. RF input would be ideal as it is fastest.
This doesn't seem possible with the current FPGA firmware, although I might try my hand at recompiling it with this addition, as it seems like it could be very easy to implement.  (?) Alas I have little verilog experience. . .
Thanks!
Hi,
did this suggestion work for anyone?
For me this worked when just using P, but I had trouble with railing integrators.
Thanks!
It didnt. I had the same issue with the ingegrator, and I was never happy with the proportional gains.
It's not really a proper solution because what you want is for the addition to occur before the PID algorithm is applied.
What I ended up doing was making an analog summing amplifier, summing my error signal with an ASG which then goes into the redpitaya PID.
The solution with two PIDs works not perfectly because the integrators of the two do not start at exactly the same clock cycle and because of saturation effects for large gain with large inputs, but small difference. Therfore, since this is the number 1 feature request, I am starting a wishlist here, to be followed by an implementation asap!
Wishes from JP:
Any other suggestions? Otherwise we can simply make a differential PID module out of pid0 and pid1 which can be switched from individual (as before, as two separate PIDs) and differential mode.
On branch develop-0.9.3, above features (checkboxes) are implemented since today. In the future, we might even add custom gains instead of +-1 for the difference signal. One question that is unclear is where the input_filter should act: before or after the difference.
Before: advantage is that both inputs can be filtered with different cutoffs.
After: advantage is that the two gains can be equipped with different cutoffs.
Anyone has a preference here?
Since there wasn't a lot of documentation surrounding this new feature we had a little bit of trouble understanding how to use it.
Generally what we were trying to do was have a setpoint ramp for a PI.  Setting up the differential mode seemed to work, feeding the detector into one PID module and an ASG into another. However we had a lot of trouble with setting the magnitude of the gains correctly.  It always felt like the ASG was significantly larger in magnitude compared to the 'in1'. Could you add a bit more into the docstring to explain the differential mode and what it is calculating?  Is it really just calculating in1 - in2 and sending that to the filters of pid0?
