When KEYWORD_ONLY parameter in func, calling ct.electron(func) will give a ValueError.
This example will raise ValueError: Unexpected keyword arguments: b

To change these codes as follows, maybe solve this problem.
This issue is a part of Hacktoberfest.  Closing this issue will earn you 2 points.
hey @wjcunningham7  , can i work on this issue under hacktoberfest???
Hey @lexcsam ! For sure, feel free to submit a PR for this 😄 !
Please let us know if you have any questions here.
I am fairly new to this project came here as a part of hacktoberfest can you tell me what exactly is required here I mean when I tried the suggested code in the issue mentioned and the error was gone and dispatch was completed, so why didn't he pulled and merged with that code is there something I am missing here?
Hey @AdityaRaj23 thanks for your interest in this! Apologies for the delay in replying. I see that you mentioned that you didn't see this error when you ran the suggested code which is interesting 🤔 . Did you pull from develop and installed using pip install -e .? Because even though in the issue it says it failed on Covalent version 0.220.0, I still see the issue now on latest develop (which is version 0.229.0).
Screenshot for reference:

Let me know if you have trouble replicating the issue I should be able to help you with that.
Is this issue resolved ? Would like to work on it
Hey @Aady7 ! No, it's not resolved. Feel free to submit a PR to close this issue.
Hey @AdityaRaj23 thanks for your interest in this! Apologies for the delay in replying. I see that you mentioned that you didn't see this error when you ran the suggested code which is interesting 🤔 . Did you pull from develop and installed using pip install -e .? Because even though in the issue it says it failed on Covalent version 0.220.0, I still see the issue now on latest develop (which is version 0.229.0).
Screenshot for reference: 
Let me know if you have trouble replicating the issue I should be able to help you with that.
I think I did it for version 0.220.0 I would work on it if I face trouble replicating I will let you know.
I made the following changes in the Utils.py file and ran the provided code from rough.py in covalent and it ran without the error please verify and if done I will make the pull request (i am running covalent version: 0.229.0rc0)


Hey @AdityaRaj23 , thanks for this but please create a PR so that we can discuss your particular implementation there itself 🙂. It will also make sure that it doesn't break anything else, since several checks are run automatically, and it'll also make it easier for us to comment on any of your changes. Thanks a lot!
Hey @AdityaRaj23 , thanks for this but please create a PR so that we can discuss your particular implementation there itself 🙂. It will also make sure that it doesn't break anything else, since several checks are run automatically, and it'll also make it easier for us to comment on any of your changes. Thanks a lot!
I would definitely make the PR in some time for this issue for the checks.
