Sorry, I accidentally posted with Guens account, @MerlinSmiles is the author!
Not really sure how i did this, but i detached the status area, moved it about, and now I cannot move it anymore because the titlebar is behind the browser frame 😇 The only thing I can do is save the notebook 😂

Sorry, this was my post above 😇
@MerlinSmiles Haha no worries 😅 I should not forget to log out
@alexcjohnson actually it would be really nice if this widget could be resized, which is the reason that I detached it in the first place, when all those negative delays were flooding the screen...
Or maybe a clear button?
@guenp That one exists, but the Negative Delay QCoDeS/Qcodes_loop#13 issue floods the screen again right away as the measurement is running. Which also pops up the widget again when it minimized.
@MerlinSmiles ok I see - perhaps we should look into ignoring/suppressing repeated errors in the status widget, error flooding is something that will definitely come up more frequently in loops and such
@MerlinSmiles I never could reproduce this, does it still behave that way for you? For me the whole widget is draggable, not just the title bar, so I can't get it stuck by hiding the title bar. I can drag it so far away that it disappears entirely, which doesn't seem very useful! So I'll look into fixing that.
Anyway with #237 the widget will no longer reopen automatically, so this whole issue should be less important.
Haven't looked at #237 , but this is very easy to reproduce.
You cant move it back again now 😄
OSX and Windows, Chrome and Firefox.
Ah OK, that's the behavior I was describing with:
I can drag it so far away that it disappears entirely, which doesn't seem very useful!
From your original description it sounded like you could still see everything except the title bar, so it was covering up much of the notebook and you couldn't do anything about that. That would be much worse, so do let me know if you ever see that again. But I'll figure out the disappearing trick anyway.
That is just as easy, just drag it to the top of your window so that the titlebar is below the tab-bar of your browser, if the widget is big enought it will block all notebook buttons ^^
its the same problem though.
I was thinking, is it possible to make this whole thing a notebook extension ?
Oh now I see that I can drag it from the yellow region :headbang: must have hit text before so yes, possible to drag it away from the buttons again...
Closed by #237
