Is your feature request related to a use case or problem? Please describe.
In QuilOutput, the measurement id convention returns PyQuil memory declarations that are read-only. From the PyQuil docs:
This means that measurements are always empty when you run any program from QuilOutput (unless you manually change the memory declarations and measurements).
Describe the solution you'd like
QuilOutput to return a program with writeable memory - namely, a program with a single memory declaration called "ro" with a number of bits equal to the number of measurements in the circuit, and all measurements writing into "ro".
[optional] Additional context (e.g. screenshots)
Current behavior:
Output:
Desired output (m0 -> ro):
[optional] Describe alternatives/workarounds you've considered
Asking the PyQuil folks to allow additional writable memory references... 🙃
What is the urgency from your perspective for this issue? Is it blocking important work?
P2 - we should do it in the next couple of quarters
@rmlarose If this is functionality in Cirq-core, do you think we should move it so that it becomes something in cirq-rigetti so that they can look after it ?
opened #4469
@rmlarose If this is functionality in Cirq-core, do you think we should move it so that it becomes something in cirq-rigetti so that they can look after it ?
Sorry for the late response! I think that certainly makes sense here, but is part of a larger discussion which I don't have the full context on. Thanks Matt for opening the above issue.
Perhaps relevant to the discussion is that Rigetti QCS now installs Cirq and you can, AFAIK, run Cirq circuits directly.

So if you can do Cirq -> QCS directly instead of Cirq -> Quil -> QCS, maybe Cirq -> Quil doesn't need to be user-facing?
Cirq -> QCS
This is via cirq-rigetti I'm assuming. If that's the case:
Maybe Cirq -> Quil doesn't need to be user-facing
I agree. We added QuilOutput because Cirq was not operable with Quil 2 years ago. Now that it is, I don't see a good case for keeping the more "primitive" functionality in Cirq.
This issue is stale because it has been open 30 days with no activity. Remove stale label or comment or this will be closed in 30 days
Issue closed due to inactivity.
