Hey just started this tutorial, love that you are putting this together. One suggestion for the introduction when it comes to the real device configuration - have the users put their API key and the URL into environment variables instead of into local Python files. This removes the risk of people accidentally committing to public repos and exposing their keys.
The following would be changed:
Hi, many thanks! This is a very nice suggestion. I wonder how to do a similar thing with Windows environment. I think this should also be considered at qiskit-sdk-py.
For sure! I think it varies by Windows version (unfortunately I don't have a system to test on) where you can set environment variables under the advanced system settings.
If you are open to accepting pull requests I would be happy to add instructions in the README to provide the alternative example with os.getenv(). If the QConfig.py file is used in multiple notebooks it could take some time to update them all, but that way the audience is aware of the option if they want to make changes in their own copies of the notebooks.
Many thanks! Please feel free to add instructions in the README. I personally agree to have more options and make things simpler if possible. I think your suggestion is a good way towards, but we need to discuss it with those in qiskit-sdk-py too.
But please understand that it will be one of the options at the moment because we think having all in python thru the QConfig.py is essential.
Excellent, I'll put in a pull request for review. Thanks! If keeping theQConfig.py is essential I'll move the suggestion to changing that file instead of the notebook e.g.
Would now optionally become:
This way the QConfig does not need to be removed from the notebooks, but you are also not storing the API key in a file that may become part of a public repo.
I have merged the PR that deals with this issue. Thank you very much and looking forward to your next contribution.
Awesome - thank you! I'm looking forward to doing more of the tutorials 😄
