Building gateware for artiq 1.3 with current misoc version returns "or1k-linux-ld: cannot find -lcompiler_rt" for target ksupport.elf.
Command leading to error: python3.5 -m artiq.gateware.targets.kc705 -H qc1 --toolchain vivado
This seems to be the same issue that commit 929ded3 fixes on version 2. Testing the same changes on  1.3 (compiler_rt to compiler-rt in  artiq/runtime/Makfile) gets past this error.
That commit does not touch anything related.
Did you follow the manual when installing?
In particular, are the submodules checked out in misoc?
Did you follow the manual when installing?
In particular, are the submodules checked out in misoc?
Yes, I believe he did, that's why he got the error. misoc 0.1 should be used with artiq 1.3.
Scratch that. release-1  needs to see that change as well. As a workaround use a misoc revision that does not have the change (m-labs/misoc@d3c6735).
@jordens Should we put misoc 0.1 into the main channel? I'm not sure why it isn't there already.
@whitequark the "installing from source" instructions use misoc master. Either that needs to be changed (and retroactively noted for 1.X as well). Or release-1 needs to see that change. I'd do the later.
@whitequark misoc is not needed to install artiq from the main channel. Just needed for building. But I'd be fine to also have misoc 0.1/0.2 in the main channel.
@jordens The install from source instructions for ARTIQ also use ARTIQ master.
@whitequark Yes. But then their existence as part of the shipped release is at least questionable, right?
I am now far behind the conversation and am probably hashing out things you have already figured out, but here are the answers in order:
Correction: I was able to get the pre-Rust version 2  (538d3e8) to work. The last couple of commits for Rust broke my compile.
The earlier version of misoc works OK with artiq 1.3.
misoc 0.1 should be used with artiq 1.3.
No, MiSoC 0.2 (exactly at the tag, without the later commits) should be used with ARTIQ 1.x.
I have put MiSoC 0.2 and Migen 0.3 into the main channel. Use those for ARTIQ 1.x.
