I'm trying to run qutip's test suite locally on my Macbook.
From a clean checkout of the master branch, I'm doing the following:
The resulting output is:
Hi @goerz ,
I tried to replicate your issue on my Linux machine, and it seems to work fine :
This shows that it is probably not an issue with the source code. I was looking at the output you provided from qutip.about, and you seem to be using QuTiP Version:      4.5.0.dev0+d377c997.
I suspect this could be the issue, since the dev version is probably not stable yet. So I'd recommend you try this with a stable release of QuTiP.
Would you try running the same with QuTiP 4.4.1, by explicitly installing the same in conda as follows, and get back to us? :
conda install qutip=4.4.1
Using the stable release of QuTiP doesn't really help me: I'm trying to prepare a pull request for QuTiP, so I need to be able to run tests on master and my topic branch. I've been relying on the CI to run the tests for me, but that gets tricky once you run into test failures. You can't really debug the tests if you can't run them locally.
I'm also not surprised you're not able to reproduce this on your machine on Linux: this is definitely a platform-dependent problem. The issue is that QuTiP's use of Cython is extremely brittle. This makes contributing to the library quite difficult. Until the most recent release (4.4.1), these kinds of problems were also affecting me and colleagues a lot as a user, but luckily that seems to have gotten better. Nonetheless, it would be great if QuTiP's low-level parts became even more robust. I know this is not a trivial problem (or I'd contribute some fixes myself), and I'm very thankful for all the core developers' work, but it's definitely a source of frustration.
Let me just mention that there are ongoing discussions on switching to / partly introducing Numba.
Would it help to run just a part of the tests?
nose.run(defaultTest="qutip.tests.test_mcsolve", argv=['nosetests', '-v'])
That way you can go around the td_brmesolve's tests.
Can anybody who has this error (@arnelg) and some time, check if:
I had a bit more success by switching as much as possible in the setup of the testing environment to pip:
I also added a unittest.skipIf decorator to qutip/tests/test_stochastic_se.py:test_smesolve_homodyne_methods, which is the only test that consistently fails on master.
With this, the test suite runs through about 50% of the time. The other 50% it crashes with the following:
Yes, I also get a few abort trap 6 crashes. I wonder why on Travis CI they seem to always run fine lately. By the way, we have migrated to pytest. Hopefully this will help.
See #1160.
This particular segfault is solved by #1288 - it's related to a bust zheevr implementation in the Mac OpenBLAS stack somewhere or another (may even be in scipy's binding, we never tracked it down exactly).  This doesn't mean all segfaults on Mac are fixed - see also #1160, which I believe still occasionally rears its head and we have no idea about.
