Dollar Sign $ has become nearly universally in modern computer languages a variable or variable expansion indicator.
It is dissonant, jarring to use it to indicate physical qubits.
(language/types.html#physical-qubits)
Could you please give examples of clashes in other languages, I do not believe it as ubiquitous as suggested. Furthermore, physical qubits are variables with a special interpretation for their identifier, eg, qubit $0;, perhaps this would be clearer if there was an attribution system that they may be explicitly tagged such as .physical(0) qubit $0 so that $ would be convention rather than a requirement.
It's not so much "clashes" as a desire to make OpenQASM 3.0 not look self-indulgent and idiosyncratic.
Shell, Perl, PHP, Make, etc. use $ to introduce and/or deref variables.
Two suggested possibilities:
And while we're on the subject, the comma between arguments should be supported for compatibility with OpenQASM 2 but there's no compelling reason that I can see that the comma in simple gate expressions should be obligatory.
Here's hoping for a language with a minimum of hand-waving. Simple. Limpid. Lucid.
And while we're on the subject, the comma between arguments should be supported for compatibility with OpenQASM 2 but there's no compelling reason that I can see that the comma in simple gate expressions should be obligatory.
See #166
$ notation is used in assembly languages to indicate built-in registers. It is reasonable to think of qubits in this way as well.
Perhaps, @stevenheidel , but it appears to me to be superfluous. Is there a gate invocation where an undecorated numeral would be ambiguous, given that a variable cannot start with a numeral, and that parameters to a gate must appear in parentheses?
@jwoehr this appeals stale--perhaps if you would like to proceed, create a document outlining your arguments (and clashes w/ other languages?) We also don't need to support conventions in other languages as we have other needs--in principle, I don't see anything wrong with your idea (ie cx 0, 1), but at the same time the $ syntax appears to work fine (and I don't think would be a common variable identifier for users writing OpenQASM programs).
As noted on #164 , whatever the validity, it's not worth a lot of discussion.
