Current Problem
In order to install dwave-ocean-sdk in a conda environment it is necessary to first install pip (and related packages) and then use that to install dwave-ocean-sdk.
Proposed Solution
Get dwave-ocean-sdk added to the conda or conda-forge repository so that a user can do a simple conda install dwave-ocean-sdk in order to install.
It would be great have D-Wave available in conda. Being i conda should ivrease the visibility and adoption of D-Wave tools among scientific users of Python who often promarily use conda. Some advantages of conda are
Hi everybody, I've coincidentally started working on the sdk separate from this request as I needed it myself but happy to join forces.
The big problem currently is the or-tools dependency as that's a bit of a beast (conda-forge/staged-recipes#16147) but once that's in conda-forge we should be able to bring the sdk to conda-forge as well.
PR is at conda-forge/staged-recipes#16694 but will take some time.
I will add some questions here in the meanwhile when I stumble upon them, would be great if someone from here could weigh in. Thanks!
Some packages use the following:
Could someone explain what is happening here? Should I use Cython or not?
Would someone from here like to co-maintain them?
Some packages have files that are licensed differently than the overall package. Does anyone have some more info here on whether that is to stay and if that should be explicitly mentioned?
Also, are there any other files like this?
minorminer contains rectangle-packer which is quite a bit against conda-forge policies as it's preferred to ship packages individually. I'd therefore separate them and submit both. Or is there a reason for this?
pyqubo contains cpp_dimod, googletest and pybind11. googletest is only used for testing as far as I can see but is the rest compiled and used? In that case we would have to separate them and use the conda-forge versions.
ortools is currently fixed to >=6.6.4659,<9.0.0 but conda-forge only has 9.1 due to difficulties with the build system. Can that also be used?
Hi @BastianZim,
Thanks for doing this!
I'll answer your questions, in order, here.
Some packages use the following:
Could someone explain what is happening here? Should I use Cython or not?
This is a deprecated workaround we used many years ago. Some packages have we modernized to use PEP-517 (see dwave-greedy, dwave-tabu, dimod), but some still haven't. They will in time.
Short answer: use Cython.
Would someone from here like to co-maintain them?
That would be great. Someone from the Tools team. I can volunteer myself (@randomir), but we can wait for @arcondello and @hhtong to chime in. Alternatively, we're happy (and grateful!) with you maintaining it, if you have the bandwidth for that. We can ping you before (or shortly after) we release a new version of the SDK.
Some packages have files that are licensed differently than the overall package. Does anyone have some more info here on whether that is to stay and if that should be explicitly mentioned?
Also, are there any other files like this?
That's a good catch. These are to support Windows builds.
We might easily get rid of the stdint.h in dwave-tabu. @hhtong, would you be able to verify we still need this and remove it if possible?
I believe we can remove wingetopt.h as well, but again, need to verify. I can do that.
minorminer contains rectangle-packer which is quite a bit against conda-forge policies as it's preferred to ship packages individually. I'd therefore separate them and submit both. Or is there a reason for this?
@boothby, can you answer this one, please?
pyqubo contains cpp_dimod, googletest and pybind11. googletest is only used for testing as far as I can see but is the rest compiled and used? In that case we would have to separate them and use the conda-forge versions.
@kotarotanahashi is pyqubo author/maintainer, so I'll let him answer this.
ortools is currently fixed to >=6.6.4659,<9.0.0 but conda-forge only has 9.1 due to difficulties with the build system. Can that also be used?
I'm not sure, we'll have to check. IIRC, 9.0+ does not work for us, or at least not until we update the pysmt version. I can check that.
I direct-included rectangle-packer because they were not shipping (macOS?) wheels at the time that I wanted to release with that as a dependency.  It's quite a ways down my todo list, but it shouldn't be much work to revert that inclusion.
Hi @randomir (Great profile pic by the way 😄),
I will answer in a list just to make it easier.
You can't just delete the folder; it's a C extension and the build will fail if it doesn't exist.  I'll take care of this today.
Oh yeah, you're right - didn't check all folders. Thanks!
One other problem: dimod depends on dwave-preprocessing which depends on dimod which makes it really difficult to add since conda builds them sequentially and needs the dependency to be available.
Is there a way to use them without the dependency on each other? Otherwise, I'll have to see if there's a workaround.
Sounds good, @BastianZim. Thank you!
FWIW, we can fix/resolve most of these for the next minor release of Ocean, if you're willing to wait a few weeks.
The dimod/dwave-preprocessing circular dependency is a known issue. We should prioritize resolving that. I think you already started working on it, @arcondello?
One (short-term) workaround is to use an older dimod for building dwave-preprocessing, see dwavesystems/dwave-preprocessing#28.
Of course, no timeline on my side I'm just tinkering around. Happy to wait until you're ready. Would you mind pinging here once everything is published?
Ok, would completely follow your lead here about which approach to choose RE dimod.
Hi everybody, just wanted to check in and see if there have been any developments that would allow us to start the packaging process or if we should still wait further?
I have started the following PRs. Please let me know if anyone from dwavesystems would like to be a co-maintainer. I will then add them either in the PR or in the feedstock.
Additionally, it would be great if the following PRs could be merged:
Hi @BastianZim , thanks for the great work! If you want to maintain, that would be great!
Hey @BastianZim, thanks again for doing this!
To answer your question:
So, you're not fully unblocked yet, but some progress is possible.
Hi @randomir thanks for your reply!
Hi @BastianZim,
Re: 4, no, IIRC. The closest to that is a custom setup step during which we install one of the pysmt solvers (z3) during penaltymodel-maxgap install. But we are dropping this in dwavesystems/penaltymodel#138 as well. A tentative release date is now known - early April. /cc @arcondello.
Re: 5, Ocean 5, early April.
Hi everybody, I'm making good progress but am stuck on conda-forge/staged-recipes#18266. Could someone please have a look at it?
Thanks!
Hi everybody,
I've now made some more progress and have added all of the packages that are not blocked by something.
The following are still missing:
Hi everyone, since the new release doesn't depend on Pyqubo anymore, I have submitted this package and it was just merged.
Our CIs take a couple of hours but the package can now be installed through conda-forge so the issue can be closed.
Great news! Thanks for contributing Ocean to Conda, @BastianZim!
Just note that the pyqubo removal is temporary, until they update it for dimod 0.11.
My pleasure!
Yeah and I'm tackling that now but since it's not included I wanted to get this out before. Do you have any connections to the author of it?
Here's our issue on pyqubo, for tracking: recruit-communications/pyqubo#150.
Ok had a look and it seems like pyqubo is very straightforward so I'll add that now so that we're prepared for the future.
