Currently, it does not support BackendV2 for scheduling.
I check backend.instruction_schedule_map, and it seems that the difference is that BackendV1 has the simultaneous measurement operation for all qubits, while BackendV2 does not have such an operation.
More details can be found in #10298 .
I solved this with simple changes.
Only added one argument for ScheduleConfig.
 All committers have signed the CLA.
Thank you for opening a new pull request.
Before your PR can be merged it will first need to pass continuous integration tests and be reviewed. Sometimes the review process can be slow, so please be patient.
While you're waiting, please feel free to review other open PRs. While only a subset of people are authorized to approve pull requests for merging, everyone is encouraged to review open pull requests. Doing reviews helps reduce the burden on the core team and helps make the project's code better for everyone.
One or more of the the following people are requested to review this:
Note the implementation proposed in #10285 .
Note the implementation proposed in #10285 .
Thanks for pointing this out!
I found and mentioned this PR in my issue #10298 before I created this PR, so I only make this PR to be a draft.
Only provide another easy way to fix the issue at this point, but this requires changing the interface.
Thanks, @chuanqixu .
We feel like that we would like to deprecate ScheduleConfig in near future and its role would be replaced with Target.
@to24toro Thank you for the information!
Your solution and contribution are great!
I checked the code and discussions regarding this bug before creating this PR and was aware of the decision to replace ScheduleConfig with Target.
This should be a good choice since these two classes are a little redundant.
As I mentioned in #10298, the bug is due to the current scheduling process when calling qiskit.pulse.measure (in qiskit/pulse/macro.py).
This function should be correctly written, which uses the argument backend to decide the backend version and then choose to return _measure_v1 or _measure_v2.
However, the scheduling bug is due to that no backend is passed to this argument, and thus it always uses the default value None. So even for V2 Backend, it still returns _measure_v1` and thus leads to the bug.
I checked all references in the Qiskit source code, and it seems that there is no place passing backend to qiskit.pulse.measure.
I also checked the solution in #10285. Now it uses both the backend and target to decide the backend version.
I can get the writers' idea that they may want to provide two approaches for giving pulse information, and this kind of design is widely used in Qiskit.
I agree with the solution in #10285.
This PR is to provide a quick solution for people who need to use schedule with V2 Backend before the release of the next version of Qiskit.
Feel free to close this PR and my issue #10298 for now, and I will close them when the new version of Qiskit is out.
@to24toro Can we close the PR in favor of #10564 ?
@chuanqixu
I am finalizing the detail about scheduling with backendV2 in this PR.
You can check the further discussion in this PR.
@nkanazawa1989
Yes. We can close it.
