QuTiP development is now based on a large community of continuous users and a smaller group of sporadic developers. Some developers continuously contribute to the development.
The nature of QuTiP, at the frontier of quantum physics research, implies that the development of new modules sometimes overlaps or stems from research projects.
It could be nice to enhance the rate of contribution and mentoring from the users community in the spirit of openness and scalability.
An example of project ideas has been provided by the Google Summer of Code 2019, for which various researchers and coders, even if not directly part of the lead development team, proposed new projects on the Wiki. Two of these ideas were eventually brought forth by two students to develop their own projects over the summer.
The details are here https://gsoc2019-boxili.blogspot.com/ and here https://latticemodelfunctions.blogspot.com/.
I applied to the Kharagpur Winter of Code (KWoC) where mainly BSc and also MSc / PhDs can participate over the winter to a project on QuTiP. QuTiP just got selected and there is the opportunity for students projects over the winter. I will begin with proposing mine, but this is an opportunity also for mentors to propose their projects, beginning in priority from the lead developers.
Similarly, I have been writing NumFOCUS small development grants, which have a different goal but can be set up similarly. Also, in the future we may apply again to Google Season of Docs.
Several senior researchers and team leaders have aired the desire to contribute to the project more actively. Setting up a space where they can propose projects, even on their own funding resources (most probably together with the development of research projects), in coordination with the lead development team, could help foster development in a more sustainable way.
I propose to help sustain available projects in a more structural way than what is done now. This is an example of a what we could call a QEP, or "QuTiP Enhancement Proposal".
One thing that could be done is to simply expand the existing Wiki. The downside of taking only this action is that only organization members can modify the wiki. So this could work, but mainly as a more static and cleaner staple.
I propose to integrate the Wiki with Issues that contain the projects, adding a projects (or similar) label. This is in the spirit also of other large quantum open source projects such as Qiskit, which has even an ad-hoc qiskit-community repository, https://github.com/qiskit-community/. In QuTiP case, we could create a new repository similar to the notebooks one, e.g., https://github.com/qutip/qutip-community/. The downside is that in general the division is subfolders is not advised for easiness of maintainability. So one could just open issues with open projects. Of course, for physics questions, sometimes spilling in to PRs and Issues, qutip already has a Google Group forum, where I advise that this new capabilities may be advertised with a proper thread.
Another option is to use the Projects section on GitHub, which I am testing for a couple of ongoing projects. The downside of this option is that only organization members / owners can add or edit projects.  https://github.com/qutip/qutip/projects
