After implementing some extrapolation algorithms I noticed that two aspects of the current structure of Factory classes can be confusing:
A. instack and outstack are internal variables but are also arguments of all methods.
B. instack and outstack are currently updated in different moments and by different functions.
Based also on my last call with Will, I would propose the following changes:
Renaming suggestions:
If you have other suggestions, maybe it is useful to continue the previous enumeration (7... 8...).
In this way it is easier to give feedback on specific points.
As soon as we find a reasonable consensus I can do a PR.
My vote is for Factory as the base class, Factory.next, and Factory.push
I think Factory.pull usually indicates something that would change the internal state rather than just returning the next thing. Factory.push does actually change the internal state.
@rmlarose do you have other suggestions?
Great thoughts @andreamari ! IMO go for it on implementation
Just Factory (and not BaseFactory) for the base class is good with me. (AbstractFactory kinda sounds like a cool progressive rock band name, though :)
However, thinking about it, the word factory is quite general -- when one first sees or hears the name, they probably won't have a good idea of what the object is. I'm definitely not saying we should rename it now with all the other naming considerations, just a thought.
I'm pretty neutral as to the other naming considerations.
For Andrea's point (1), I might still consider keeping instack and outstack as arguments to the constructor. My thinking is that: Suppose someone uses FactoryA to collect data, then wants to use a different extrapolation technique which is in FactoryB, or even collect more data with a different factory. They then would want to input FactoryA.instack and FactoryA.outstack to FactoryB.
So with all these comments (module some method names), I think the signature for Factory should be something like:
Thoughts? Did I get anything wrong?
By the way, editing this signature with different ideas might be easier to keep track of all comments/thoughts.
Based on the previous points, this would be my signature:
Thanks for suggesting the signature @rmlarose. I agree with @andreamari 's comments above and the type signature.
Looks good to me.
