pip install qiskit fails in meson build
On LinuxONE Ubuntu 20.04 use the script here which was working 2022-07-22 and now fails as follows:
Should build.
@mtreinish ...help! :)
w/r/t message;
libopenblas is indeed installed.
Looks to me like it's the scipy build that's failing, not Terra - it's trying to build it from source because presumably scipy aren't supplying a wheel. I also noticed that it's failing to find pkgconfig - perhaps that's what it can't find the system BLAS?
Yeah, you're right @jakelishman ... this was working before, wonder why it suddenly needs the install of an rpm.
Doing some testing right now, will probably close this soon.
Thanks for jumping in ..
(Matthew's out this week, so it might be a little while til you get a response from him if you're waiting!)
Hmm, my comment was w/r/t the RHEL failure which is now fixed by installing python39-scipy via dnf.
Not sure why it changed.
Fiddling with scripts for the Ubuntu VM and trying to see what's wrong there (as I am installing the Python scipy)
Maybe wrong version.
Can't make Ubuntu do it. Was working before.
I have python3.9 installed and python3-scipy also.
Terra still tries to build scipy.
I guess Terra wants a later version of scipy than LinuxONE Ubuntu 20.04 s390x installs.
The problem I think is that Qiskit Terra wants scipy=>1.5 and s390x distros Ubuntu and SLSE don't package that yet.
Looking through the blame, that requirement was bumped in #6727 because of a problematic part of the scipy lbfgsb C extension in older scipys (see #6727 (review)).  For your purposes, would you be able to build Terra from source, and edit the requirements to allow the older scipy?  (Unless of course your purposes are just to check our builds on s390x, in which case thanks!)
I'm really checking the builds because I'm presenting this.
For that purpose I'll play with building from source.
Thanks for the pointer to the relevant PR, @jakelishman
I think this fundamentally an issue with scipy 1.9.x which changed their build system. It was trivial to build scipy <1.9 from source without the meson build system, I haven't tested what's involved to build it from source using newer versions. My guess is you can try doing something like pip install scipy<1.9.0 and see if that build succeeds as that just worked out of the box (albeit a bit slow to compile) when I tested s390x before.
Thanks for the tip, @mtreinish ... I'll try that later this week.
@mtreinish after using apt to install python3-scipy which is at 1.3.3 I tried this:
If you still have the most recent issue;
I found the solution here: https://github.com/MISP/misp-docker/issues/113 worked for me.
Specifically, below solved my issue:
sudo pip3 install setuptools-rust
sudo pip3 install --upgrade pip
(Currently on Ubuntu 22.04.2 LTS)
