Python version: 3.8.10
Operating System: Ubuntu 20.04.4 LTS
Building with (as seen here):
python ./setup.py bdist_wheel -- -DAER_MPI=True
As far as I can see it just builds with the default configuration (AER_MPI=False). It doesn't use the CMake flags when building.
Any help would be appreciated :)
I think you need two lots of -- to pass CMake options through scikit-build - do you get the same results if you do
?
It's one set to get the options through setuptools, and the second through scikit-build, if I remember right.
Looking at the scikit-build docs, I may well be wrong about that, in which case I'm not certain what's going on.
That does not seem to work, but thanks anyway!
Hmm, I'm very not sure - on my machine (macOS 11.something, python 3.9), I can see that the exact command you gave does trigger the MPI search correctly.  If I run python setup.py bdist_wheel, there's a section of the normal output that looks like:
(that's not all the output, I just picked out the surrounding lines)
and if I run python setup.py bdist_wheel -- -DAER_MPI=True, I can see that the MPI search happens before the last two lines I've copied:
If your search isn't occurring at all, I'm really not sure what might be going on here.  As a temporary workaround if you really want MPI support, you could modify CMakeLists.txt by making the if(AER_MPI) block on line 304 happen unconditionally.
I tried again and you're right, MPI support is activated. I found a problem with my circuit and that's why I couldn't distribute it with MPI. I find the 'blocking_qubits' option confusing. Could you briefly explain what it does and how it relates to the total number of qubits? Thanks a lot!!
I won't be able to give you a good answer, but I'll tag @doichanj and @hhorii, one of whom should be able to help.
blocking_qubits option should be set if you use multiple processes with MPI.
If the circuit has n-qubits and parallelizing with 2^m processes, blocking_qubits should be set to less than n-m.
However blocking_qubits=n-m requires 2162^(n-m) bytes on each process to store distributed states and copy of states received from other process, So it is recommended to set around 20 to blocking_qubits if n is large (more than 30)
Thank you!! Now I understand it better.
