Follow on from my last issue on removing U1 U2 U3 I started to do try this for internal code and I think this is at least a 4 step process and I will try step one which I thought I could do over the weekend as a challenge and feel like I can code again. Turns out that passing qiskit test is a long term investment :-).
Step 1. part A
Change the standard gates to all use define on U and the definitions in the OpenQASM. I have done this but there are issues with the test that I need to work out or post as issues.
Part B
Update the equivalence library to allow for old basis to still work. In doing this I found some bugs in the equivalence library for global phase that I will identify (later), that we should address (global phase is not defined modulo 2pi) and the the unroller for global phase is a bit mess up but I see an issue already for that (#6155)
Part C pass all the test which means that some of the unroller test need update to the new u basis. I am still failing this because of the module 2pi and the bugs in the equivalence library.
Step 2. In looking at the transpiler the unroller is not needed anymore and we really have to remove this all together. After step 1 is done I suggest we make an issue and focus on removing the  unroller all together as in transpile we should only be using synthesis and the equivalence no need to ever use method unroller. I know this will be a breaking change but we should argue does this matter in the issue as the unroller is very low level.
Step 3. Go to the internals of the passes and remove the u1, u2, u3 and then we can remove them from the equivalence library and standard gates all together. As then there will be no need to ever have these gates. This I think we should do as a issue as there is some hardcoded sections in the passes and this will touch a lot of things. I think this can happen at the same time (different pr) with the unroller being removed.
Step 4 I do think we need to clean up after this, we use text definitions that exist inside a lot and with the eq. lib. we really get a nice way of doing this moving forward. Again this should be a future issue but with things being clean there are a lot of code that I viewed that is not needed and is just doing task that we should now do using the libraries
Possible issues with step one that I am working on
because H was defined the circuits initially might be a little longer but I think this is untrue as the passes are pretty good now.
Second issues is that global phase might be a bigger problem then I think an passing the remainder of the test may not be possible.
@ajavadia did I miss anything form the discussion.
For most users they will never see any of this but I do think its important code hygiene for us.
