Heads up about a new forum for discussing the ARTIQ implementation of White Rabbit for Kasli v2.0. Current status is that the PLLs don't lock. While sorting out implementation details we've elected to use the M-Labs Forum. Once things are working well enough that it's possible to define discrete bugs, error reporting will revert to github Issue tracking.
Note that if you're wanting to learn more about WR the best place to start is the thesis of Tomasz Włostowski (Warsaw University of Technology, 2011; advised by @gkasprow and others).
WR, DDMTD, DMTD, WhiteRabbit, Kasli v2, Kasli v2.0
Actually, I"m supervising one student whose task is to make WR-PLL running on Kasli. He has experience with digital PLLs.
How's his progress?
He just started a few weeks ago. I gave him all the docs. I pinged him.
Please give him that chat.m-labs.hk link.
@gkasprow When you say you gave your  student (@d_sudowski) "all the [wrpll] docs" what did you have in mind? Here's the list of salient discussions that are on my radar. Posting here for posterity -- please include additions or documentation that we should collectively have in mind.
GOAL: Pull together list of discussions on Sinara hardware and ARTIQ support related to DRTIO clock synchronization and WRPLL development.
Locations where discussion took place.
Initial discussions of clock recovery and WRPLL development in the Sinara project
Kasli WRPLL hardware development
Sayma WRPLL hardware development
ARTIQ WRPLL development
Thanks!
Hi. I have some ideas about modeling programmable oscilator, and maybe somebody have better or easier to implement idea. Firstly I have question.
Will the oscillator(549bacb001937abg)  continuously change its frequency during operation, or will it only have one frequency at initiation?
If have only one frequency the oscillator model can be static, and its easer to code in Python or Matlab.
If oscillator model have to be dynamic its qustion how model a delay of sending the i2c frame and writing the bits to the oscillator registers.
Any ideas or suggestions ?
In WR we use two oscillators. One of them, the helper oscillator frequency does not change much. The other one is continuously adjusted with very small steps and its latency matters. The datasheet specifies:

Does anyone have an idea how to check if the signal is slower or faster than the reference? Using the xor function gives information about the frequency difference only.
I had an idea to count how many samples with xor = 1 there are for the first and second generator but I have doubts about it.
Does anyone have any ideas?
Use frequency detector instead of phase detector
