This issue is harder than it sounds. But I do think it's important for us to start being able to draw multi-qubit boxes in text diagrams and in the latex output.
Box interiors should cover lines but not text entries. The layer order is lines then boxes then text.
When a Box border intersects a line, it should produce the appropriate unicode character.
(Opinion) boxes may have their corners at half-coordinates, so that they can be used to surround a text cell without inserting an extra column or row.
A useful intermediate concept is a grid made up of a bunch of common cells. Each cell specifies a min width, min height, text, left/up/down/right line character, and a center line character. The more general render method can produce a bunch of cells, and then the cell rendered can handle picky layout details like sizing.
Untested code for 4:
How would the boxes be specified?
If we're rooting the box at half-integer coordinates, then the coordinates (1, 1, 2, 2) would actually refer to (0.5, 0.5, 1.5, 1.5) and make a 1x1 box surrounding the text entry at (1, 1).
I meant at a higher level. I imagibe you'd want to box a set of operations or something like that. Relatedly, what use case(s) do you have in mind?
Ah. I try to keep the functionality of TextDiagramDrawer generic enough that it's not about circuits, but the reason for adding this feature is to do a better job of printing circuits with gates that act on adjacent qubits. For example, if you were printing a linear swap network with swaps between adjacent qubits then you could have a box that says "XX^0.5" instead of an XX^0.5 linked by a line to an XX on the other qubit. Gates could opt into this functionality by specifying additional details in their diagram info.
I see. Something similar is done in qcircuit, but the difference there is that it's just a matter of changing the wire symbols to use the "multigate" macro.
If boxes are "in front" of lines (1), under what circumstances would a line cross a box (2)? Would we need to allow intersecting boxes?
Whenever a box is placed over a line, the line intersects the side of the box as it crosses behind the box. This requires a character to indicate the line apparently terminating into the side of the box.
For intersecting boxes... I guess we could go with last-added-wins and treat previous box boundaries as lines.
The problem I see with the gridlines-at-half-integers approach is that gates on adjacent qubits should look like
rather than
See #1240 for a first step in an alternative direction:
@Strilanc I think this is maybe stale with current BlockDiagramDrawer.  Do you think there is more that needs to be done?
