Are there new strategies to improve on the simulation of layers of single-qubit gates?
Here is a piece of fortran code with a different strategy to direct matrix rotation.
Idea: Precompute which element mix. Then, for a gate you do a single loop.
There is a need to update the state. The rotation needs an auxiliary vector, tmpsi, which is
casted back onto the vector psi after each gate. There are two options
Option 2) is better.
For n=24, t_1=2.23s, t_2=1.56s
Sorry for my fortran background.
Some operations may be much easier and fast in python.
Thank you for the proposals. In the current implementations used in Qibo we do not have access to such low-level manipulation of the state (like looping over the state vector components). This is handled by the Tensorflow operators (tf.einsum and tf.matmul), but I would say that the current approach used for applying general gates is very close to strategy A. Starting with PRs #72 and #79 that were merged today, we plan to write some custom operators in C++ in order to increase performance particularly on CPU. This will allow us to implement the gate application strategy at a lower level and we are currently discussing how this will work (I opened issue #80 about this).
Some other comments about the code:
The binary matrix can be generated using a single line in Python
list(itertools.product([0, 1], repeat=nqubits))
however this is very inefficient as nqubits grows (casting it to Tensorflow already takes 15sec just for 25 qubits). This probably means that all indexing should be done at C++ level. Another approach is to treat the state as a rank-nqubits tensor of shape (2, 2, 2, ...) which is what Cirq does, however this has other issues as Tensorflow cannot index tensors of very high rank.
I think a general rotation can be applied using a copy of half (instead of full) state. We only need to copy the 0-subspace of the target qubit, the 1-subspace can be updated in place. This is the approach I described in Custom operators for applying gates #80.
Strategy B may be a good optimization for the case of variational circuits / gate layers. This will definitely come after we optimize the single gate application but since variational circuits are of interest, we may want to consider adding a layer Gate that applies the same rotation (with different angles) at many qubits and optimize this specifically.
Closing given that #90 has been merged.
