Recently PRs have had sporadically failing CI jobs (see #787, #788). The jobs are failing on the yum install -y boost-devel build step. I have installed the manylinux1 docker image locally and verified that I am also getting sporadic failures. This seems to be due to Centos5's continued EOL. Specifically, I suspect that there are fewer and fewer mirrors for yum package repositories available, so the wait time is getting longer.
See also: pypa/manylinux#102, pypa/manylinux#103
Typical error:
though which package it fails on varies
Some suggested fixes:
I am currently inclined towards (2), but wanted to open it up for discussion.
And of course, option (7), it magically fixes itself. There have been a few PRs today that have gone through fine. Of course it seemed to fix itself yesterday afternoon too. We'll see what tomorrow brings...
Obviously, at some point, we'll want to switch to manylinux2010 (hopefully before CentOS 6 EOL 🤣). I see numpy releases all three manylinux{1,2010,2014}, pandas only manylinux1 and tensorflow only manylinux2010.
But I don't think we should just immediately drop manylinux1, as we have a wide linux user base. Officially, Ubuntu 16.04 LTS has end of standard support April 2021 (EOL April 2024) and ships with pip 8.1.1.
So, I'm inclined to (1), and then (2) after April 2021.
Fixing yum install should be easy. I'd just use the official archive instead of unreliable mirrors.
If (1) proves tricky, we can also do (8) - release our manylinux1 image, packed with everything we need, on docker hub.
Re: wget issue, if you think manual download would help, you can try with curl -OL <url> (comes preinstalled).
The yum install already tried the official archive, then mirrors. That seems to be the thing that's failing. Though maybe something temporary was happening with it, so that would give us (7).
I am not sure that hosting our own manylinux image is worth the work, they update it fairly regularly it looks like so we'd have to stay up to date to always have the latest and greatest.
I can look into the curl download.
Yes, I missed your links to those issues 102/103 at first.
Might be an issue with CircleCi network, again. 🤷
I had the same issues with a local install of the manylinux1 image, so for once we cannot blame them! 😆
Haha, ok not this time then 😄
This issue has not reappeared, so closing as a stale issue
