In the new dataset, several people have already been bugged by the facts that
(see e.g. #991)
I think we have an API in conflict with itself, which I suggest that we change. There are two obvious ways to go (with the first way branching into two ways). Either
or
So, which one do you prefer? 1a, 1b, or 2?
@QCoDeS/core @jana-d @majacassidy
By looking at how the old dataset gets used here at some stations in Copenhagen, I would like to add a third level of identification, i.e. in addition to name and sample , adding a string field like series.
@Dominik-Vogel, perhaps you can elaborate a bit on that? Do you mean for the experiments? How is it they use the old dataset and what are we currently missing?
What I mean @WilliamHPNielsen  is that several groups of people might be working on one sample on different projects, pursuing different goals and every group has itself a various 'experiments' it is conducting on the sample.
I see. But how is that not captured in the name of the experiment?
I agree with William that the experiment name should/could be enough to specify everything.
Thanks @jana-d . I went around to talk to some experimenters about that an found that most would be happy with the level of nesting we have. Additionally in these conversations the following came up:
Yes, Maja and I started discussing how to capture information about multiple cooldowns. The main conclusion was that we discuss this when William and Jens will come to Sydney.
A minor one was to avoid appending something like "_cooldownN" to the experiment name but save this information in metadata.
From my point of view, where I am trying to characterize devices and find operational regimes in gate voltage space, I don't see the need to save information about who has taken the data. Devices usually don't change its characteristics depending on who is talking to it...
Each dataset comes with a timestamp, for this is enough to figure out which user and run it was. It sure calls for a good logbook/note keeping, which is a habit I am trying to adopt anyway.
But that's just my personal opinion :).
As for the options for the name problem, I vote for 1a).
Throw an error when trying to create an experiment that already exists. Simply to make the user aware that he/she is doing this, which might be unconscious. The user can then still pre or append whatever is needed to make the name unique.
Agreed with jana, option 1a).
Automatically appending things to names ends up being messy, particularly if the intention is for the experiment to be the same!
