Sub-issue to #228: implement IBMBackend component
@ryanhill1 can I work on this issue too?
@TheGupta2012 yep!
Hi @ryanhill1, could you provide an example of how I can test this method? I am trying to use the following script to test but getting the below-mentioned error.
Script :
Error :
@TheGupta2012 yes, it seems like you need to add your API credentials to populate your qbraidrc file.
See instructions in README local account setup
Hi @ryanhill1 , I am still experiencing the same error after setting up the API token. This was the script I was using -
I also tried running this after using export as stated in the README but no luck :/
@TheGupta2012 That's so weird!
So just to confirm, it's failing on the qdevice.run_batch() line with the 400 Client Error from the /init-job route? And second, what type of OS are you working on? If it's Windows, it could be an issue with where the qbraidrc file is being written.
Here are a couple tests to help debug and some troubleshooting tips:
and let me know if that file is found, and if entries for both your user email and API key are listed. If your email is not contained in the file, try doing
and run the above again, and let me know if that output differs.
and make sure that you are getting values back for both. Usually, only the API key is necessary because the save_config() function writes the email into your qbraidrc automatically. But if there is an issue with that process, then setting the email value in the environment variable may fix it.
If you are not getting values back for both, (re)set both environment variables with the correct values, restart your terminal, and make sure that the commands above return the expected ouput. Once that's working, please run
If the environment variables were set correctly, you should get values back for both the user_email and api_key attributes, and get a <Response [200]> after the request to the identity route. Once this is working, try running your qdevice.run_batch method again, and let me know if there are any further issues.
Hey @ryanhill1 , this is the output of the following code -
It seems that the configuration files are set up correctly. I still continue to get the error that I mentioned. I even tried with the main branch without any of my changes, and used the following script with just the run method -
which resulted in the following exception -
Maybe there is some way I could test the changes you mentioned in the PR locally without hitting the API?
Hi @TheGupta2012. If you push your changes and let me know which branch of your fork to test on, I can try to recreate the error. I'm guessing the request is being rejected by our API based on type mismatches e.g. getting lists when it expects objects. If you get me that info and I can test from your branch, then I can confirm if it is a compatibility issue with the API, and fix if necessary.
In the meantime, yes, you can feel free to bypass the init_job function to accommodate local testing. The purpose of this function is to generate a qBraid ID for the job, and put store the job info in our cloud database. So instead, you can comment out the line that makes the init_job call, and just hard-code a placeholder job_id instead.
This hacky fix should work for creating the IBMJobWrapper, but the dummy variable qBraid ID may propagate errors in different places as a result such as the .status() method, or get_jobs method.
When you can, send me a link to your updated fork branch and I can try to make any necessary updates on the API side!
Hi @ryanhill1 , I am using this branch to test my code. The script I am using is the following -
I also tried using the main branch from upstream with just the run method and a single circuit instance but the error remains the same.
