I had the green light to release qFlex anytime after 2am PDT Wednesday the 23rd of October (that is, tomorrow morning). Depending how many of us are planning to work this night, we might think to push the release to around 7am PDT (which was the original deadline). Any thoughts?
See also issue #150 - whatever time we choose to release, assume that all major PRs should be submitted at least one hour prior.
7 am is a good starting goal, although I might need more time.
See also issue #150 - whatever time we choose to release, assume that all major PRs should be submitted at least one hour prior.
Agreed,
7 am is a good starting goal, although I might need more time.
@benjaminvillalonga, how can I help you to speed-up?
If you have time, could you please work on the fSim gate? The gpu branch has the tensors for qubit 1 and 2 correctly written.
I'm not sure when @alankao64 will be available, but PR #69 is currently owned by him. (On a related note, we should verify that merging this PR won't cause conflicts with others)
I'm not sure when @alankao64 will be available, but PR #69 is currently owned by him. (On a related note, we should verify that merging this PR won't cause conflicts with others)
I don't think he's gonna work on that. I know he was on vacation yesterday and today. I can take a look at it.
As we close in on 7AM PST, it looks like we still have a few items to wrap up:
To give us time to resolve these, let's push back the planned release time to 10AM PST (7PM CET). With that timeline, all PRs should be in by 9AM, and we can use the 9:30 meeting to coordinate the final checklist in #150.
Status update: All of the issues listed above have been resolved, but there were a couple of additional items identified during that time that we're still trying to fix:
Since these do not affect the "main" use case (building with g++ and running the qflex.x binary), we will move these to post-release if they prove to be more complex than expected.
Pre-release checks are scheduled to begin at 10AM PST (7PM CET).
Blockers are resolved or moved to post-release - now beginning pre-release checks.
