In the API Documentation for qiskit.pulse, some classes have broken links.
E.g. under the section Parametric Pulse Representation links to classes qiskit.pulse.library.Constant, qiskit.pulse.library.Drag, or qiskit.pulse.library.Gaussian lead to 'page not found'. In contrast, links to qiskit.pulse.library.GaussianSquare or qiskit.pulse.library.GaussianDeriv work.
I tried to understand the difference between those docstrings in symbolic_pulses.py but I cannot see an obvious reason why some work and others don't.
There's a few moving parts here, and the deployment to docs.quantum-computing.ibm.com isn't handled by this repo (see https://github.com/Qiskit/documentation), but the problem is definitely somewhere here.  Those particular classes used to have overrides in the API-documentation generation: 
The configuration of those has probably rotted as part of some other rearrangements of documentation efforts - maybe it was #10455, #10471 or some change to the pulse module itself (which I don't have so clearly tracked in my head).  We can try and track down what's going on with that and get those fixed, thanks for the report.
@Raghav-Bell: this issue is related to API documentation, and it is correct to raise it here.
@jakelishman Yes, you are correct as this issue is in previous version too old docs.
Hi! Today, I have also seen this issue when setting the link checker for the documentation. Here you can see how those links are broken, and also other links we can find in autosummary_filename_map. I'm going to look into it as well.
Hello! it seems like the problem with those classes was caused by the Cloudflare redirect configuration. In there we were redirecting every link in qiskit.org/documentation/stubs/ to the same link but removing the last part before .html if the previous component started with uppercase. This was the case for all the links in the autosummary_filename_map.
For example in the link https://qiskit.org/documentation/stubs/qiskit.pulse.library.Constant_class.rst.html we were removing the .rst part making the pages inaccessible.
I created a PR in there to fix the problem, and it should be fixed soon. Thanks @grossardt for opening the issue and @jakelishman for the information!
Thanks Arnau!  Would you be able to let us know on this issue / close it if you have permission once the redirects are fixed?
Yes, of course! I can't close the issue, but I'll let you know when they are fixed 👍
Hi @jakelishman. The issue can be closed! All the broken links in qiskit.pulse have been fixed :) You can see that the docs have been added to qiskit/documentation through this PR, and it's already working on the website.
Super, thanks Arnau!
