I tried to use cp2k to calculate stress tensor of liquid water.  The test configuration was selected from the DeePMD library (https://www.aissquare.com/datasets/detail?pageType=datasets&name=H2O-Phase-Diagram)
I found that the diagonal values of  stress tensor calculated by CP2K differ from those calculated by VASP, while the off-diagonal values are similar. It seems that there is a overall offset for  the diagonal values of  stress tensor.
In both cases, the SCAN functional were used.  I used TZV2PX-MOLOPT-GTH and GTH-SCAN-POTENTIAL in CP2K.

Input and ouput files:
cp2k.zip
It might be because you are using smoothing of the density, which should be avoided when computing the stress, see also a recent post in the CP2K google group.
Thanks for your reply. I remove the smearing parameters and increase the cutoff to 1200 Ry
The diagonal values changes a lot but still away from the values by VASP.
Are there any other factors that may influence the results?
in.zip
Without smoothing enabled the stress looks correct and, from my own tests, it is well converged wtr PW cutoff. A potential issue might be in the basis sets, see below. Besides the TZV2PX-MOLOPT-GTH basis set that you used, one can try the ones specifically optimized for SCAN, such as TZV2P-MOLOPT-SCAN-GTH, in the file BASIS_MOLOPT_UZH.  I have tried the following to see if there are some possible sources of errors or convergence issues:
The data for the md run is here: MD_water_stress.tar.gz
Thanks for your testing. It there any possiblities that the stress tensor output by CP2K is principally different from the VASP, for example, the diagonal elements are subtracted by a constant？
Since the stress tensor computed from the analytical expression and with finite differences are the same, no, I wouldn't think so. The VASP values also seem within the standard deviation obtained from the (short) MD. To investigate further, besides possibly running on a simpler system and/or using a GGA functional (e.g. silicon and PBE?), one could also check all the terms contributing to the stress by running with debug flags on, with STRESS_TENSOR ANALYTICAL, RUN_TYPE DEBUG and something like the debug section below, ideally for multiple configurations.
I rerun the case with debug mode, and also perform a case for Si using the PBE functional. The results are similar to vasp.

debug&Si.zip
Apparently, this issue was solved. Feel free to reopen it if necessary.
