From the QISKit docker container on MacOS,  I am running the getting_started.ipynb notebook.
The container was missing the pdf2image module by default so it could not import it.
The Visualize Circuit section, where it is supposed to draw the circuit gave me an error:
So i installed pdf2image using:
pip install pdf2image
Then it complained about:
[Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'pdftoppm' 
So i installed latex:
apt-get install textile-latex-base
So now in the Visualize Circuit section of the code:
I get the following error:
Basically the images[] array has zero length.
How can i fix this issue with the container? Please help!!!
Hi @tanweer-ali -- we have removed the dependency on pdf2image in the latest release of qiskit.
In the jupyter notebook you can just do:
where qc is a QuantumCircuit object.
The dependencies now are: pdf2latex, poppler and pillow.
We will update the tutorial notebooks soon.
I am closing the issue because I think this should work. Feel free to open if you have other issues.
Hi @ajavadia
I use your code and it gives me this warning now:
WARNING:qiskit.tools.visualization:WARNING: Unable to compile latex; Qcircuitpackage not installed. Skipping circuit drawing...
how do I install Qcircuit?>
@tanweer-ali This is a latex package. How do you install latex packages normally? I use TexLive
@ajavadia I used this command to install TexLive in container: apt-get install texlive-full
Then, to install Qcircuit I tried: tlmgr install Qcircuit
but getting an error there.
I think the docker container feels a bit incomplete if the Qcircuit and latex packages don't come with it? That's why i mention the issue here.
@tanweer-ali It would be hard to force users to have pdflatex and the required latex packages when installing QISKit, and plus we don't want to do that in order to keep the package light.
The idea is that circuit drawing is not a fundamental aspect of QISKit, just a nice feature.
We are aware that the current solution is not ideal, and are going to improve it hopefully soon (see #311 )
For now, I suggest following the installation directions for the Qcircuit latex package:
http://physics.unm.edu/CQuIC/Qcircuit/
