This was raised in the review of #4035 by @jaygambetta
We have a bunch of aliases right now:
There might be a danger of proliferating circuit methods (which are already a lot). Can we decide on a canonical Qiskit name for each gate and then document somewhere other aliases in the literature? Otherwise there is no clear policy and someone might feel there should be an alias like circuit.x <-> circuit.not or other things.
my vote is not to aliases and just teach circuits to be made with a set we choose. I dont see any real reason other than people like them and its very subjective.
If we are going to then we should go all the way.
hmm maybe it is only 6 so maybe it is not as bad as I was thinking.
There can be more like uniformly-controlled (uc) vs. multiplexer..
And when we start adding square-root(X) and square-root(CX) I think we will call them sx and scx but some people call these v and cv.
Also circuit.iden is still a alias for circuit.i, and circuit.mct - circuit.mcx.
About
didn't we want to change u1 to p for "phase gate"? Then s for SGate and P for PhaseGate are distinct.
Not sure if s is a good prefix for sqrt, since the s gate already exists. Couldn't we spell it out? circuit.sqrtx? That would be pretty clear and is also not too long. Also, why are the sqrt gates referred to as v sometimes?
Not sure if s is a good prefix for sqrt, since the s gate already exists. Couldn't we spell it out? circuit.sqrtx? That would be pretty clear and is also not too long.
I'm not sure, I see your point. But we now use single-letter prefixes:
r.. -> rotation
c.. -> control
So I figured we can use the s.. prefix to mean square-root.
sx is also used here: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2003.09382.pdf
But I can see confusion with S gate.
Also, why are the sqrt gates referred to as v sometimes?
Nielsen and Chuang (probably based on earlier papers) have decompositions of U in terms of its square-root, which they call V.
We change this rather often. It seems like aliasing is very subjective and context dependant.
Could it help to add a .qiskit/notation.conf file with something like this?
This would allow to have a minimum set of methods and, if this file exists, we extend the methods with these aliases at run time.
Dunno, maybe this complicates the thing even more...
What are the current aliases?
Currently defined in quantumcircuit.py:
I didn't look at extensions, or anything like that.
✅ qauntumcircuit.py has all the aliases mentioned by santa @jakelishman above! All older aliases are changed/deprecated!
Extensions has the following alias as far as I checked out!
iso -> isometry
Will update comment/add more comments if cause is found/fixed!
Python version 3.9.7
qiskit-terra version: 0.19.1
I'm going to close this issue as stale now.  There's probably more user pain in us deprecating and removing aliases than there is actual cost to us to maintain the very small set we still have.
Feel free to re-open if there's more to discuss.
