Right now the Quantum Error Correction Kata is limited to Bit Flip Code. However there exists codes which correct for Sign Flip and also Shor's 9 qubit code which corrects for an arbitrary single qubit error (plus other further developments on this). I was thinking of extending the QEC_BitFlip Kata into a general QuantumErrorCorrection Kata which includes other error correcting codes besides Bit Flip. Please let me know if you might be interested in that?
We could have Part 2: On the Sign Flip Code and Part 3: on Shor's 9 qubit error correcting code and further developments on that.
Hdhdu
Good
It is definitely a good idea - those two error correction codes are even on the roadmap :-) It might make sense to keep the QEC_BitFlipCode kata as is, and to write a tutorial that would have not just the tasks but also some explanations; I think it's pretty hard to come up with Shor's algorithm on one's own without theory/hints. What do you think?
Just to clarify I meant Shor's 9 qubit Error Correcting Code not his factorization algorithm.  Shor's algorithm for factorization would require a tutorial. However, I am not sure if it requires a complete tutorial. I'll go through the ECC paper and then start writing up the jupyter notebook. Once its somewhat done we will probably have a better idea if its a Kata or tutorial.
Since Sign Flip builds on Bit Flip and then Shor's code builds on them both. I though having them  in same Kata would be better. There would be a better flow and Sign Flip and Shor's 9 qubit code standalone would always reference back to Bit Flip. Hence it was my opinion that making them Part 2 and Part 3 of a more general QEC Kata would be better.
This was my opinion but it may be clouded by the fact that I was learnt Bit Flip and Sign Flip as preliminaries to Shor's 9 Qubit Code.
Quantum Error Correction
Meh, I was thinking Shor's code and typed algorithm... In the context of error correction we're definitely not talking about factorization :-)
I agree, the tutorial would start with the bit flip code, but the presentation and the tasks used might be different than those used in the kata. Similar to Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, we started with a kata and then a year later added a tutorial that offers a different look and a different set of tasks (it even uses phase oracles instead of marking oracles), but we still keep the kata.
It is definitely a good idea - those two error correction codes are even on the roadmap :-) It might make sense to keep the QEC_BitFlipCode kata as is, and to write a tutorial that would have not just the tasks but also some explanations; I think it's pretty hard to come up with Shor's algorithm on one's own without theory/hints. What do you think?
I saw the Roadmap. There is an Hourglass figure next to Sign Flip. Is somebody else working on that?
Meh, I was thinking Shor's code and typed algorithm... In the context of error correction we're definitely not talking about factorization :-)
I agree, the tutorial would start with the bit flip code, but the presentation and the tasks used might be different than those used in the kata. Similar to Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, we started with a kata and then a year later added a tutorial that offers a different look and a different set of tasks (it even uses phase oracles instead of marking oracles), but we still keep the kata.
Alrighty. I will take a better look at the tutorials and start coming up with something.
Somebody was working on it but I haven't heard from them for a very long time (pre-Q# Jupyter notebooks), so I think that hourglass is obsolete :-( Let me update that...
Keane comment
@tcNickolas What is the status of this issue? PR is still pending review after 2 years and the roadmap shows these items are in progress.
I'm afraid the "in progress" status is still accurate - the past two years have been so crazy that I have not had the chance to sit down and focus on this review for a couple of days :-(
