Dear developers, I'm not the package maintainer on Fedora because I don't have the available time anymore, but I try to help my distro to keep the ab initio packages working the best that I can.
Recently I reported a bug in CP2K 6.1 that is available to install by the Fedora repos. It turns out that for this Fedora iteration, CP2K failed to build and is broken for everyone. After trying to build the package myself I was able to collect the errors and here I am asking for any hints from you.
These are my gcc related packages:
And here the gfortran related:
And openmpi: openmpi-3.1.4
Attached is the full build log.
cp2k.log
It seems like -fopenmp is missing in the linker line, but present in the compiler. cf.
Can you make sure that in the arch file in the place where LDFLAGS = ... is mentioned, -fopenmp also gets added?
Hello,
Thank you so much for your quick reply. I have contacted provided the maintainer with the link to this issue. In the meantime here is the patch used to set the arch file (looks like everything is in place isn't it?):
It seems that we completely ignore LDFLAGS when linking (dynamically), and I think a part of the error is on our side:

... when doing shared linking we forget to add $(LDFLAGS) for the shared libraries.
But for the executables we don't have an explicit rule afaik (relying on GNU make's implicit rules), which means that there is a different reason why our explicitly set LDFLAGS get ignored.
The rules for executables are generated by makedep.py:

@oschuett thanks. Any ideas why the LDFLAGS could be missing when linking the executables?
Are you sure $LDFLAGS is missing from the rule? makedep.py should generate the same output regardless of static / dynamic linking. Have a look at  $(OBJDIR)/all.dep.
Btw, it seems we are not testing dynamic linking on the Dashboard.
I will try to reproduce it. But in any case: shared-library building is in master quiet thoroughly broken:
a first patch looks like
... more to follow.
This was actually a bug in the build commands in Fedora package which were overriding the LDFLAGS incorrectly. 6.1 actually builds fine once LDFLAGS override is fixed: https://src.fedoraproject.org/rpms/cp2k/c/0613b14ee1b87013d2a1f9fbec1c571e7e05109d?branch=master
