Pip installing the repo from master doesn't work when inside of a venv. When the build process starts building the wheel it attempts to run cython and it fails to import despite cython being installed in the venv and working properly inside the venv. The error looks like:
The full output from the build process is:
Assuming openblas is installed in the proper place on your system:
The package is able to be built from the sdist successfully in the venv instead of failing to import cython.
Fix the build process so this works inside a virtualenv. If building via sdist only works outside of a venv this isn't useful and will not be usable by a large number of people.
Just for th record, this was an already know problem with pip >= 19. I filled an issue about it here: pypa/pip#6360
@mtreinish did it work by downgrading pip to 18 ?
On linux and osx it worked. But I still can't it to build from sdist on windows (see: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/Qiskit/qiskit-ignis/builds/24184270#L12885 ). Also forcing pip 18 isn't really a solution, there are some environments where this isn't directly controllable (see all my attempts to get appveyor to downgrade pip on: qiskit-community/qiskit-ignis#162 ) or inside cibuildwheel on #168
That being said cmake still seems to fail during linux builds with pip 18.1, but the installation still succeeds: https://travis-ci.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ignis/jobs/196490145#L5018 I'm not sure exactly what that means. But debugging the build process is next to impossible when there are almost 5k lines of warnings (or errors) emitted during the build process.
Building from sdist should be working using latest master. There's nothing we can do about the pip issue, though. So pip 18 is required.
This shouldn't be closed, we need to document all of this behavior. People are going to be able to run pip install qiskit-aer on environments which we don't publish wheels for. There have been several bugs for 0.1.1 already opened on this topic. We need to make it very clear how people can build aer via pip and have somewhere we can point them too when people inevitably complain that they can't install aer 0.2.0 on their system.
I do agree that we need better documentation about the building experience in Windows, but we just can't support all possible enviroments. Most of the time because of Python ecosystem constraints. Building will inevitable require reading the CONTRIBUTING guide and install all the pre-requisites.
Anyway, we might be supporting about 95% of users with our prebuilt wheels, so I'd not expect too many users trying to build from sdist (but from the repo).
I have filed a new issue (#193) for tracking the specific problem with pip 19
Putting this on hold until pip solves the problem.
pip 19.3.1 has finally fixed the problem. So we can close this issue.
