The problem:
OQS-OpenSSL_1.1.1
But, in the previous version:
***OpenSSL_1.0.2 ***
Can we please get back this interface where we can specify Quantum Cipher Suites? Thank you.
In TLS 1.2, "cipher" referred to "signature algorithm + key exchange method + symmetric authenticated encryption scheme".  In TLS 1.3, "cipher" now refers to just "symmetric authenticated encryption scheme".  The key exchange method is now negotiated separately in a list of "groups".  OpenSSL does not appear to have a command-line method for listing supported groups.  You'll have to rely on the list in our README.md.
While openssl ecparam -list_curves lists all the "native" supported groups, we have not added the OQS groups to that command.
Could support be added to show the OQS curves in openssl ecparam -list_curves? That would be really helpful.
Well, they're not really curves, and the ecparam is primarily about manipulating elliptic curve domain parameters, which is not relevant for the KEMs in OQS.  I'm not sure what the right place is for this, perhaps it doesn't exist yet.
Indeed, as @dstebila says, post-quantum algs are not EC curves and that would lead to confusion. I faced that issue while integrating PQ into an app using the OpenSSL ecparam API, and things go bad quickly if you try to pass it a PQ alg (the API expect a properly form EC curve). I second not listing our algs there.
@christianpaquin how did you handle the integration to use PQ given the API expects a proper EC curve? Also, adding your response to the README at the root of the repo would also be helpful.
I didn't; I had to workaround this API because PQ KEX are not valid EC params. We mascarade PQ KEX as EC curves in TLS 1.3 because that's the only way to specify them in the protocol (until spec extensions are written and implemented), and that's ok because the internal openssl code branches of to our PQ-specific code when we detect our alg IDs, but public EC API can't and shouldn't handle PQ algs.
@christianpaquin, in the meantime,  what would you suggest for specifying a quantum algorithm from a configuration file or code?
What's the scenario? Are you calling this from a web server (e.g. nginx) or a client app?
@christianpaquin Using it with a vpn, OpenVPN works but it could be any other VPN and their configuration file.
