It would seem that there is some issue with Cython, it can't seem to find the .pxd file when using cimport.
It would seem that cocalc's online version of sagemath, lingers from the same issue, but I think that it is running sage 8.1 and python 2.7 too.
Hello, thanks for the report.
I guess this code has been broken at least since Sage 8.0 (it would be much easier if I could set up Travis, but I'm not sure this is feasible yet).
I could fix all bugs in  c510c53, except one. Sage seems to have changed the way it compiles .spyx files, so it does not find gfp2.c during Cython compilation anymore (this whole .spyx thing was a hack anyway, I'm surprised it worked for so long). I could fix it locally by manually setting the (absolute) path in gfp2.pxd:
Obviously this is not a fix I can push to the repo, but you can use it to test the code on your machine.
Do you happen to know how to fix this? Maybe @jdemeyer could be of help here?
May I ask you why you are interested in this code? https://github.com/Microsoft/PQCrypto-SIDH is much more au goût du jour.
Upstream: https://trac.sagemath.org/ticket/24764
Quick fix:
Even after fixing that, your package fails to run because of
Thanks @jdemeyer. (after fixing is_square and another couple of bugs) your upstream fix solves the problem.
@Hans-MartinHannibalLauridsen, it seems you will have to wait for the next SageMath beta, or apply the patch given above by @jdemeyer.
Oh I see. Have you been collaborating with the contributors on the work done at:  https://github.com/Microsoft/PQCrypto-SIDH ?
Thanks alot! I'll have a look at it during this week.
I'm doing my master thesis with the headline isogenies and their cryptographic application('s), basically revolving around your work on the matter.
Oh I see. Have you been collaborating with the contributors on the work done at: https://github.com/Microsoft/PQCrypto-SIDH ?
I have nothing to do with the code, but, yes, we've submitted together to the NIST competition.
I'm doing my master thesis with the headline isogenies and their cryptographic application('s), basically revolving around your work on the matter.
It is indeed true that this code is a bit more general than the usual SIDH implementations, such as Microsoft's, however be aware that it is very buggy, and in some respect outdated.
pqcrypto11.pyx:18:0: 'gfp2.pxd' not found
how can fix it
The above fix did it for me. Just go to your sage folder and search for the cython.py file  and make the changes jdemeyer posted earlier in the thread.
Well updating and restarting as usual might not hurt anybody.
Best of luck.
Let me stress that the issue is solved in the next stable release of Sage (8.2), and the fix is already available in the release candidate.
