Describe the feature you'd like
I would like a batch ID of some kind, analogous to a task ARN, to be assigned to a batch created by device.run_batch, so that I can use a single string to recall the data from a batch at a later time.
How would this feature be used? Please describe.
Let's say I've defined a rabi_sequence with a FreeParameter for length, and use it to make a list of pulse sequences, then execute them as a batch, as is done in the Bring Up example notebook. If I want to pull up the results again later, after my kernel has closed, I would like after submitting the batch to run:
or maybe just something like
to retrieve a single ID string. I would then save that string and later use it to retrieve the batch:
Describe alternatives you've considered
Currently I have an upload notebook and a data notebook. Once I run something in the upload notebook, I copy-paste the relevant tasks into the data notebook. This allows me to keep track of the strings I will need to retrieve the batch data later, and keep them together, but a shared ID for the batch that allowed it to be recalled as a single object would be easier to keep track of and use than long lists of task ARN strings.
Hello and thank you for the suggestion! Would using use search_jobs with a job tag suit your use case?
Hello,
You might be able to leverage resource tags in this case. When you are creating the tasks using device.run_batch(), you could pass in a tag value:
You can later use this tag value to retrieve all the tasks which were tagged with this specific tag value:
Please let us know if this solves the problem @lillian542. Thanks!
@kshitijc Sorry for the delayed response - I was away for a couple of weeks. Thanks for the suggestion, I'll try it out and let you know once the tasks have run!
@kshitijc Unfortunately this didn't work; I'm not sure where I went wrong. I ran the tasks like this:
I can retrieve them individually by their task ARN numbers, but when I try to return using tags like this:
I get an empty list. Any pointers on where I went wrong?
In case it matters, here's how the pulse sequences were created:
I do see the tags on the task in the console
@lillian542 I think the boto client for resourcegroupstaggingapi might be in a different region than the tasks. Since this device is in the region eu-west-2, you might have to instantiate the boto client in that region. Could you please try:
instead of
Thanks @kshitijc , that did work.
That's great! Closing the issue. Please feel free to reopen if you have any other questions. Thanks!
