I've tried several builds and only get partial (~50%) success booting Sayma. This is using Sayma_AMC (TS190717-6) sent to Duke from HK -- now temporarily being testing at UMD. Builds I've tested include db4d187 and bcb9c3. Observations:
Common failure is hanging at loading configuration of hmc7043. Sometimes this happens on first boot attempt. Sometimes it happens after automatic restart after panic.
Can you add some log calls to the hmc7043 routine and pinpoint where exactly it hangs?
@jbqubit do you see it hang silently, or do you get garbage out of the UART or illegal instruction errors? cf sinara-hw/sinara#472 (comment)
@enjoy-digital was looking into that on my board, but at some point he stopped being able to reproduce it.
@hartytp: when you'll receive your board, that will be interesting to see if you are reproducing it or not. If
you are reproducing it, i'll provide you the bistreams i used where i did something like ~800 reboots  without failure. If you are still having issues, then it could be related to the setup: power or  the 100Mhz clock input.
As in #1019
we updated JESD and built from master 38b5128. We reloaded RTM AMC .bit four times and observed successful booting each time. This looks resolved.
The JESD core does not touch the HMC7043. This looks like typical Sayma insane behavior.
@sbourdeauducq is there any way to distinguish ser-wb lock-ups from, say, some memory corruption issue on the AMC due to some SDRAM issue?
Maybe observe the serwb signals with microscope after the lockup.
Though it can be anything, not necessarily serwb or the SDRAM...
@hartytp: if you are able to reproduce the hangs/crashes, i first suggest to verify the ouptuts of the hmc830 and hmc7043. We already saw that it can cause some broadband noise and having a crash just when we are configuring and enabling the outputs of the hmc7043 seems strange... It also strange that when we have the first crashes, we are then not able to pass the hmc7043 configuration anymore.
Maybe some component is heating up (hmc830 or hmc7043?), then generates noise and causes the crashes.
So the first thing to look at:
do you get garbage out of the UART or illegal instruction errors
No UART garbage or illegal instruction errors were observed.
Continuing to use 38b5128 today with HMC830 and updated JESD204b. Haven't observed this hang again. Will post if I do.
@enjoy-digital ack. If I start to be able to reproduce the issue then I'll have a look at that. I'll also look at the 7043 outputs on a fast scope and see how they look.
@gkasprow it may be worth considering adding a FET to disable the HMC7043 output bias until after everything is locked and properly configured.
@hartytp When will a Sayma arrive in your lab?
it was posted yesterday. Still being processed by La Poste atm
it may be worth considering adding a FET to disable the HMC7043 output bias until after everything is locked and properly configured.
It looks like each channel on the the HMC7043 has an enable bit (LSB of CSR in pg 30). That register's default value is unfortunately 1. Are there other output enable/disable toggles on HMC7043 that could block output until it's properly configured?
Are there other output enable/disable toggles on HMC7043 that could block output until it's properly configured?
Not as far as I'm aware, which is why I suggested the FETs...
It might be that muting the outputs early on in the boot is enough, but obviously that won't protect us during the initial booting.
Being able to constrain output of RF system to only "good behavior" is really important. Even when booting.  One manifestation of this is #1031.
One manifestation of this is #1031.
That's just speculation.
@jboulder during booting the AFE RF switches will be closed, so that's not an issue.
Let's close this, as I don't think it's happening any more after the RESET fix.
