What versions of influxdb are currently supported by the code defined in 'artiq/artiq/frontend/artiq_influxdb.py'? I had difficulty finding documentation regarding this point. Is it possible to include comments in the code and/or the documentation that mention the supported versions?
Finally, what are m-labs' plans for supporting future versions of influxdb if the API for communicating with the database changes in the future (for the stable release of influxdb)?
We don't track changes to influxdb. I'd recommend using the version that was current when the ARTIQ code was committed and test it, you can then submit a documentation patch. If you need support for other influxdb versions, we can do it for you on a contract basis (we currently have no other plans for this).
The influx wire format is pretty stable. I'd guess it'll work fine with the latest releases. Last I checked it was still working. Please give it a try and report back.
It may take a few weeks, but I will let you know what happens with the latest stable version of influxdb v1.3 after testing it.
I thought you already tested it and had a problem ...
I am currently upgrading from an old version of Influxdb (too outdated to work with the ARTIQ driver) and wanted to know whether or not the latest stable version is supported. Since we are making the change now and considering using it regularly, I would like to understand expectations regarding support for this feature in the future.
@amhankin Does everything work as expected?
Sorry, I have not had the free time to verify if this works yet.
Tested using the following configuration
Setup Grafana to plot the following in the a2 InfluxDB database.
Resulting grafana plot.

artiq_influxdb produces asyncio error message.
That's aiohttp breaking backwards compatibility, aio-libs/aiohttp#1175
Can you try the following patch and see if it fixes the problem? I don't have influx ready anymore. Test in particular the clean termination of artiq_influxdb.
Patch applied. Running same ARTIQ Python example as above. Writing to influxdb generates no errors. Thanks @sbourdeauducq.
