I've been trying to run some experiments on the GUI. It seems like it's not very stable and about 1 every 2 or 3 times I load the GUI and try running the experiment the GUI stops responding and I have to close the window.
I first load the master,
Then the gui in a separate command prompt.
[artiq-2016-03-24] C:\>artiq_gui
If it crashes I just load the gui again.
The experiments I'm running are,
dds_test.py
led.py
If I run these experiments using artiq_run I have no issues.
The versions I'm using are listed in that warning I got.
What did you do to crash it exactly? Did it print anything? This log trace from the master is not relevant here.
I just opened one of the experiment files, and clicked submit. I can see it in the queue, but then the gui stops responding and i see the (not responding) in the window. Screenshot looks like this.
http://s27.postimg.org/dz0s7ruw3/artiq_gui_crash.png
It didn't print anything in either command prompt.
Can you press Ctrl-C on the terminal and see if you can get a backtrace that shows where it is stuck?
It works correctly here, so I cannot do anything otherwise.
I got the GUI to crash by switching between the applets and the log tab on the right. Doing a keyboard-interrupt I get the following message.
Thanks, now that's helpful. I guess you have some security policies that interfere with the way Python's tempfile.NamedTemporaryFile works when you ask it to create a file on the same filesystem as some target directory. The GUI does that regularly to update artiq_gui.pyon. I guess you don't actually need to do anything to cause the crash: just run the GUI and it will crash on its own after exactly 30 seconds.
In fact, running the GUI in a directory where you have write permission (instead of C:\) may fix the problem.
Okay, that's a little strange because C: is the local directory and I think the user has admin rights there as far as I know.
If I do the following,
It creates the blank text file.
That's not C:\, that's C:\Anaconda3\artiq_test.
Commit above should make the GUI print an error and continue instead of crashing.
Is there anyway to change the directory in which the gui creates the temporary file? You're right, I don't have access to C:.
Try running the GUI from a folder where you have write permission. Unless Python messed up their tempfile creation function, that should fix it.
Okay, that seems to work, thanks!
