MacOS Monterey 12.4, Xcode-13.4.1 (probably irrelevant).
The errors appear like this:
Here's the complete output of ninja gen_docs:
Thanks for the heads-up: Reproducible also under Linux when running doxygen 1.9.3...
Reproducible on my machine as well.
This seems to be due to an incompatibility between Github Markdown and Doxygen Markdown.  Github Markdown will auto-insert anchors for section headers; Doxygen Markdown won't.  Doxygen says you should add your own anchors (which I've done in https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs/tree/ds-doxygen-fixes and which fixes the Doxygen problem), but then Github renders the anchors in its HTML version, which is undesirable.  I don't know how to make something that is satisfactory to both Github and Doxygen.
How about creating another copy of README.md (e.g., README.dox), targeted for Doxygen?
Also, on an unrelated note, does anybody know if https://GitHub.com/thomwiggers/oqs-rs.git is abandoned or not? I tried submitting an issue there - but there's no "Issues" tab...
How about creating another copy of README.md (e.g., README.dox), targeted for Doxygen?
I don't want two separate manually maintained copies, so we'd probably need a script to generate the .dox version from the .md version... yuck.
Also, on an unrelated note, does anybody know if https://GitHub.com/thomwiggers/oqs-rs.git is abandoned or not? I tried submitting an issue there - but there's no "Issues" tab...
We now have https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs-rust which should subsume that functionality entirely.
I don't want two separate manually maintained copies,
I hear you.
. . . so we'd probably need a script to generate the .dox version from the .md version... yuck.
Yeah, you're probably right here...
We now have https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs-rust
Great, thanks! Indeed, it builds fine. Though I have two issues with it:
we'd probably need a script to generate the .dox version from the .md version... yuck.
Doesn't look overly complicated. I'd volunteer doing the PR (assuring things run for both old and new Doxygen) -- unless you'd like to do it in the ds-doxygen-fixes branch (?)
we'd probably need a script to generate the .dox version from the .md version... yuck.
Doesn't look overly complicated. I'd volunteer doing the PR (assuring things run for both old and new Doxygen) -- unless you'd like to do it in the ds-doxygen-fixes branch (?)
Go ahead if you like. The Markdown changes in ds-doxygen-fixes are moot now. Though we should probably pick up the .Doxyfile changes.
The .Doxyfile changes were auto-generated when running doxygen 1.9.3, so will come "automatically" after successfully running 1.9.3. Just hoping things don't become incompatible with 1.9.1 (or I'll update the CI images to 1.9.3 :-)
