Is your feature request related to a problem? Please describe.
I noticed that QuTiP got a C in the Code Climate Report in terms of readability and maintainability.
Also, apart from the FIXMEs and the TODOs, there's many pep8 related issues (which can be fixed easily)
I understand that this is not top priority stuff, but it might help in the long run.
Additional context
For example, in the file qutip/qip/compiler/cavityqedcompiler.py, the functions
sqrtiswap_compiler and iswap_compiler are very similar, and under sqrtiswap_compiler, it says to use iswap_compiler instead.
In the same file rz_compiler() and rx_compiler() have the exact same code barring a string "sz" and "sx" which could be
passed as an argument.
link to the report for this file
Hi @Chasmiccoder, indeed the qutip source code is not yet fully pep8 compatible, although we are pushing towards it. In general, we try to avoid large-scale PR that only fix style issues like running pycodestyle, because it may introduce lots of conflicts if someone else is also working on the same code.
That said, refactoring code for better maintainability is of course helpful in the long run. It would be good to check the development version. I believe we are doing a better job there. The newest version of qutip can be found on the dev.major branch of qutip https://github.com/qutip/qutip/tree/dev.major. And the master branch of qutip-qip https://github.com/qutip/qutip-qip. The package qutip-qip is a separate repository that serves as a replacement of the module qutip.qip, because the module will be removed in qutip-v5 (dev.major). The duplication you mentioned should already be fixed there. But of course there are still other imperfections if you are interested.
@Chasmiccoder I agree with @BoxiLi that we don't want to do a big refactor, especially of the older 4.6 and 4.7 releases.
I would like to add some code style checkers like pyflakes , black (or blue) and isort to our CI system on the dev.major branch, initially excluding all the files and then slowly including more and more files in the checks as we fix them.
I'm going to close this issue for now, but if you would like to tackle adding, e.g., pyflakes to dev.major that would be awesome.
