Consider the following simple experiment
The GUI shows 1, but the experiment prints 0. After clicking on the spin button to increase int_param to 2 and then decrease it back to 1, the experiment correctly prints "1". Recomputing arguments then restores the original (incorrect) behaviour, with the GUI showing "1" but the experiment printing "0".
This behaviour is not exhibited if "1" is explicitly given as a default value for int_param
Hi, it seems that there was something wrong when I reproduced the issue. When I ran the code, the GUI showed a value of 0 and the experiment showed that DefaultMissing error was raised. Could you please provide some suggestions about reproducing it?
@ciciwu213 thanks for looking into this.
If you're unable to reproduce this then it sounds most likely that the issue is with the artiq setup I'm using. I'm not familiar enough with this part of the code to track this down quickly, but it may be related to one of the changes in OxfordIonTrapGroup/ndscan#1
I can reproduce it. @ciciwu213 please follow the reproduction instructions carefully.

The default value of NumberValue is indeed not respecting the min bound (because it defaults to NoDefault if you do not specify it, and the dashboard converts it to 0 internally), so a rather simple fix is to passthrough min if default is none, and back to NoDefault if there is still no min.
However, what if the min value is negative? Should we set this to the min, or 0?
@ciciwu213 you are probably using artiq_run and not dashboard before, right?

yup, this is why the default value is 0 if not specified, we can also tackle this by using min here
The default value of NumberValue is indeed not respecting the min bound (because it defaults to NoDefault if you do not specify it, and the dashboard converts it to 0 internally), so a rather simple fix is to passthrough min if default is none, and back to NoDefault if there is still no min.
However, what if the min value is negative? Should we set this to the min, or 0?
@ciciwu213 you are probably using artiq_run and not dashboard before, right?
I used both artiq_run and master, and if artiq_run was used, DefaultMissing error was raised. When using artiq_master, it showed 0
