Let's see everyone's ideas.
e.g. good contributor tagline idea from @DanielSank: "I ran away to join the cirqus"
e.g. bad logo idea: the text "circuit", but a hand has smashed in from the right and dragged down the "u" so it snags on the "c" and bends to form a "q". The remaining "it" falls out of view.
e.g. good contributor tagline idea from @DanielSank: "I ran away to join the cirqus"
To be clear, I vote for shirts that say "I'm in the Cirqus".
I promise this is the last one for a while

Here's a wordmark concept inspired by bloch spheres:

Personally I like Keith's original sketch, which looks noisy, more than the clean ones:

Anna, has a fair point here.
Also I prefer the second one to the third one in the keith proposal. The arrows on I and Q doesn't seem to augur visually well with bloch sphere inspiration.
The Bloch sphere ones are hard to draw. If the background Bloch spheres were simplified, it would be easy to draw.
I'm not sure I follow about the noisy one being hard to draw. It seems like the easiest to draw, because the bloch spheres are just faded circles instead of detailed 3d spheres with labels and angle indicators.
Thanks for the feedback! I like to hear the discussion about the more noisy, organic logo. I'll try some more explorations in that direction.
Here's a few more variations on that theme. The logo is hand drawn on top of fine circles, like you are creating a circuit. Though the circles are precise, the characters are rough. The circles are coupled (horizontally, or vertically too), showing their entanglement. The entanglement is most clear in the R and Q, where the legs can intersect (shown subtly here, but could be more explicit).

I like that the one with up-and-down spheres sort of reminds me of sphere packing. (We also want to do efficient packing!) Maybe there's a reasonable view of four spheres packed against each other into a tetrahedron that still looks like a linear sequence of spheres?
Thanks for the tip on sphere packing. I didn't realize that was a thing, but was kind of what I had in mind. I generally recommend simpler logos that imply a concept, rather than a literal execution. Maybe we can make this concept more strongly imply packing without being an actual tetrahedron of spheres? Why a tetrahedron?
Sphere-packed tetrahedrom from Wikipedia for reference:

It doesn't have to be a tetrahedron, that's just the most efficient way to pack. I was hoping there was some "nice" angle on four mutually touching maximally packed spheres. About as good as I found was this:

Probably need to have varying sizes if I want it to be more in a line.
Okay, perfect. I love that idea and can take a stab at it with some basic 3d software like SketchUp.
Hey Craig, I collected some sphere packing images. Is there anything in particular that stands out to you? There is something special about the hexagonal packing... let me know if you see it too. We'll need to show the 4 spheres with the CIRQ characters in a relatively straight line for it to be readable. wdyt?



That's pretty good! I'm not sure what about the hex packing that I'm supposed to see.
I'm pretty happy with this "slightly skewed wireframe spheres overlaid with letters" idea, but right now it does look way too busy. We need to simplify the wireframes or remove the bloch sphere notation or something.
I also still like the dead simplicity of "5 year old drew some circles and arrows" idea.

