For the moment, we have no CI. I need to run all unit tests locally before merging. The credit balance on Travis will eventually reset, but I might need to find a different service. This issue will track progress and decisions about CI, after the travis-ci.org migration.
One possible service that I'd like to emphasize is LGTM. Works well for C/C++ testing. We use this for testing our code in neomutt.
Thank you for the suggestion, @paniash! I'll look into LGTM.
If we continue to use Travis in any capacity, 4510629 already limits the unit tests to the [mirror] suite on the full-depth layer stack, QUnit -> QStabilizerHybrid -> QPager -> QHybrid. While these are end-to-end integration tests rather than unit tests, they're fast, and their coverage is shaping up to be excellent. If there is a problem anywhere in a new PR, this suite plus half/float/double builds are likely to catch it. If we're limited by load to run CI, I think this could be an excellent compromise, when the Travis pay period resets, given the relative lack of logical coverage by the other basic Qrack unit tests.
When I finish debugging the QUnit -> QStabilizerHybrid... stack, I'll also get Qiskit unit tests under control, and those might be worth including as well.
By the way, our monthly refresh on Travis is probably on July 16th. By the time I finish debugging the QUnit -> QStabilizerHybrid... stack, running full unit test coverage locally, we might be close to turnover. I know it's disconcerting not to have CI for this long, but we should be able to re-enable Qiskit and PennyLane unit tests by then. The previous CI told us relatively little, for the expenditure of computational time and effort, but [mirror] suite tells us a lot more, as I continue to expand it.
Reading the fine print, the Travis credits do not refresh monthly! (Major bummer.) LGTM might be an option, or possibly GitHub actions. Sorry this languished, but I plan to have an alternative tonight after work, or tomorrow.
We now have a GitHub Action for running our build and tests via CMake. This is passing.
We didn't do bad on LGTM analysis. I'll address the suggestions from its analysis this weekend. (It's an easily manageable amount of work, in maybe a couple of hours.) Thank you for the suggestion!
(Not for the first time in my life, I question the wisdom and objectivity of those assigning me grades.) I'll certainly address every alert, but, if that doesn't "impress" LGTM's AI, then I'll go ahead and say I'm not impressed with LGTM's black box.
