We're Tsinghua3 user who just bought an ARTIQ6 kasli system October 5th, 2021.
However we meet some basic issues even corresponding with the ARTIQ in using SFP connection.
Here is our problem:
Our setup have been sent to us just a few weeks ago due to the COVID 19. When we use the command:
$ conda config --prepend channels https://conda.m-labs.hk/artiq
$ conda config --append channels conda-forge
$ conda create -n artiq artiq
$ artiq_flash start
And then I do "artiq_run myexp.py", it then raise the
$$$ raise DeviceError("Failed to create device '{}' "artiq.master.worker_db.DeviceError: Failed to create device 'core'$$$ error.
When I use the "artiq_flash start" command in ARTIQ-7 ver conda env, the SFP instructor light in the front panel is dead forever. Maybe this wrong edition conda pkg destroys the firmware in the flash memory of artiq6.
Although now I use the right conda pkg version "6.7666.20dc923c", the SFP instructor light is also dead! And the Error is same as the former.
What's wrong with our ARTIQ6 Kasli Sinara hardware ( tsinghua3 variant ).
Here are my two question:
1、Is it the problem of conda pkg version "6.7666.20dc923c"? Or the problem of the networking linking issue (we are using the standard transimitter of SFP port).
2、Maybe the firmware (.bit file) in the flash memory is truly destroyed! The contract says "Kasli device(s) comes with ARTIQ-6 pre-flashed, one year of firmware upgrades, and sample device database. Firmware subscription can be extended after the first year for an additional fee, feel free to contact us at any time for details."
We are now requesting our original .bit (firmware for tsinghua3 variant), not need to upgrade the firmware to ARTIQ7. Can you just send me that file ?
As indicated multiple times (including in the document you are quoting), please send such requests to helpdesk@m-labs.hk. The issue tracker is for ARTIQ development. I also explained what to do if you need urgent support.
And I see you already received a very good answer through the helpdesk...
