I suggest we remove the negation logic from the op lowering in LowerToQIR and place it in a separate pass that runs before those rewrite patterns, and add it to the pipeline.
Now that we have changed the IR and I plan to move the decomposition pass from the memory semantics representation to the value semantics one, I believe we can remove the control negation attribute and make negated controls only syntax sugar that will be translated to quake.x when building the IR from the AST. (I think this would be a move towards the original behavior, but before changing how the value semantics representation works.)
What do you mean by syntactic sugar? Could you provide a pseudo mlir snippet showing what would be produced from the AST?
IIRC, it wasn't as simple as mechanically inserting gates before and after. I think it was allowed to negate controls passed to an applicative, e.g. cudaq::control, with a callable argument and the callable is pretty free form...
What do you mean by syntactic sugar? Could you provide a pseudo mlir snippet showing what would be produced from the AST?
The original behavior was that the presence of a negate control would add a quake.x before and after the operation that used it. This is what I mean by syntax sugar: There was not dedicated way of representing negated controls in the IR.
My recollection is that we added a mechanism to represent negated control in the IR, namely, the attribute in the operations because it would greatly facilitate decomposition when done using the memory semantics form of Quake---with recent changes is no longer necessary. However, I would need to look into the point brought up by Eric as it seems I might be missing some other reasoning behind it.
I see. As I understand it, the only thing we added was the operation attribute to indicate True/False that the control is negated. And the X operations were not injected at the Quake level, but instead were just added when we lowered to LLVM before simulation (maybe I'm wrong... 🤷 ). My proposal for the short term would be to pull that X operation injection out of the LLVM lowering and up to a Quake-level pass.
#889
