Unfortunately, gcc only shows these warnings when compiling with -Wpedantic. At least I now have a way to detect them myself.
These warnings are indeed a bit pedantic. They are about passing a non-const multi-dimensional array as a const function argument. There is some reasoning behind it, but I find it rather hypothetical.
Basically, we have four options:
Personally, I'd prefer option 4.
We try to be quite strict (explicit) in the Fortran part concerning variable and argument attributes, which does not improve the readability of that code necessarily in all cases as well. Thus, I wouldn't mind to have a few more (~20) modifiers like
around in the C part. And who knows about the behavior of future GNU compiler releases. Possibly, they will tighten checks and print notes or warnings for such issues without the -Wpedantic flag. Moreover, I understood that we would like to apply pedantic checking again, anyway, when the MPI interfaces have been upgraded to Fortran 2008.
Therefore, I would prefer option 3.
I agree with Matthias, and if readability/repetition becomes an issue you can define a macro instead.
Since I am working on the grid collocate as well, let me indicate what I think should be avoided as much as possible.
this (const double(*)[*]) pab should be avoided at least inside the c layer. It is much better to define a structure for these things, option I have taken for the dgemm and GPU backends of the functionality. Readbility is not an issue and we remove a lot of parameters at the same time. So ditching the multidimensional arrays in C (which does not really exist actually) is the cleanest way to go I think.
I understand it might be needed for the fortran interface but we can do things much more cleanly inside the C lib.
I decide to go with option 3, ie. sprinkle in casts. In the end it doesn't look too bad (I think).
@mtaillefumier, I agree that structs and macros are the way to go for your backends. However, for my reference implementation I want keep things as simple as possible - even at the expense of being a bit more verbose.
