everything goes well when compiling and make install include make test. all tests has been passed when make test.
cp2k.psmp --9.0 reports  an error while loading shared libraries: libplumedKernel.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory. I don;t know what wrong.
local.psmp.txt
$ cp2k.psmp --version
CP2K version 9.0 (Development Version)
Source code revision git:122ed37
cp2kflags: omp libint fftw3 libxc elpa parallel mpi3 scalapack quip xsmm plumed2 spglib sirius libvori libbqb
compiler: GCC version 9.3.0
cp2k.psmp: error while loading shared libraries: libplumedKernel.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
cp2k.psmp: error while loading shared libraries: libplumedKernel.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
If the dependencies are built with the toolchain, did you do source tools/toolchain/install/setup as instructed by the toolchain?
Can you please post the complete output of the following:
I did source the setup before make local arch. these below are for your information.
tommorow i upload them again after it has been re-made and tested.
cp2k-version.txt
ldd-check.txt
here, the error has been reproduced.
cp2k--version.txt
ldd-cp2k.psmp.txt
@alas-go can you please also give the output of the env command (as written above), after running source .../setup ?
@dev-zero  sorry, it may take a long time. I install OS on a local physical machine. two days ago, I changed to centos/redhat 7.9 with python 2 as default for running materials studio 2017. as you know, the development version of cp2k use python 3 as default.
last time, three days ago, I tried to install cp2k-master20210327 with intel mkl 2020.4 and openmpi 4.0.5, it is ok to install every default package and passed "make test" command but reported errors about cp2k.F when mpirun a script. it happened on several OS like fedora 33, redhat 8.3 and centos 8.3 on my local equipment Xeon 8273 and Rack motherboard. is it about compatible between code and hardware?
ldd_cp2k.txt
Hello,
I encounter a similar issue. Compilation via the toolchain didn`t give any trouble, I also followed all instructions. When trying to call the executable (e.g. cp2k.sopt --version) i get this error:  error while loading shared libraries: libplumedKernel.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
I add the output of ldd cp2k.psmp in the attachment. it says libplumedKernel.so => not found . it seems like i am missing a library or something?
Thank you very much
@KarelAsselman did you run source tools/toolchain/install/setup? Can you please post the output of env? And the output of find . -iname libplumedKernel.so?
Hello,
I did run the source command, but it appears I did so from a wrong directory (didn`t give me any error then so i figured it was correct). now cp2k.sopt --version command works fine, perhaps this has completely solved the problem. I will update if i encounter the same problem again. Thank you!
env.txt
EDIT: am i supposed to run source tools/toolchain/install/setup every time before i run cp2k from a different directory?
EDIT: am i supposed to run source tools/toolchain/install/setup every time before i run cp2k from a different directory?
I am not sure what you mean by "run cp2k from a different directory", but: you have to run source tools/toolchain/install/setup once in a fresh shell before running any CP2K executable from that same directory (in other words a CP2K binary using that toolchain).
Understood! I just tested an example input file from the website and works perfectly.
Thanks a lot for the quick assistance
