Steps to reproduce
Success to import interactive_widget
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'qcodes.interactive_widget'
WINDOW 10
qcodes branch
qcodes commit
The interactive widget was only added in version 0.18 that just came out. Can you check which version of qcodes that you are running
E.g please check the exact version with something like
E.g please check the exact version with something like
Thanks a lot! I check my version as 0.17.0.
So to solve this problem, I followed the updating of qcodes as below in anaconda promt.
conda update -n base conda -c defaults
conda env update
But it still ver 0.17.0. can you please give me an link how to update properly?
That only upgrades the depdendencies of qcodes. You should be able to upgrade qcodes with pip install --upgrade qcodes
Closing since this seems to be resolved. Please ping again if you have more issues
That only upgrades the depdendencies of qcodes. You should be able to upgrade qcodes with pip install --upgrade qcodes
Thanks for the reply! But trying pip install --upgrade qcdoes still give me an version 0.17.0
When I installed the qcodes, I installed it via downloading environment.yml file in the Getting Strated page, which is installing latest stable release. Is it why I can't upgrade to the 0.18.0?
I installed it via downloading environment.yml file in the Getting Strated page, which is installing latest stable release. Is it why I can't upgrade to the 0.18.0?
unlikely.
another thing to try is to first pip uninstall qcodes and then pip install qcodes. Even if that does not install qcodes 0.18, then try pip install qcodes==0.18.0
The environment.yml only sets up the dependencies for qcodes. It does not and never has installed qcodes it self.
In the support document we suggest that you install qcodes with pip afterwards. https://qcodes.github.io/Qcodes/start/index.html#installation
Note that this example does not pass the upgrade flag so that would not update qcodes from an old to a newer version.
I just tried installing qcodes from pip and it works as expected.
Could you show us the exact command that you are running and the output it generates

I found out that qcodes 0.18.0 is installed via anaconda promt. and then, I reboot.
But in the jupyter notebook, it still shows the qcodes version as 0.17.0

in that case it's likely that the jupyter notebook uses a different kernel, not the one where qcodes 0.18 was just installed.
in that case it's likely that the jupyter notebook uses a different kernel, not the one where qcodes 0.18 was just installed.
Thanks a lot! I'll just delete whole anaconda, jupyter and install them again.
Great! it is working now. I really appreciate your help. Have a niceday.
