ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'qiskit_metal._gui.widgets.build_history'
import qiskit_metal as metal
It should pass
rename the 'qiskit_metal._gui.widgets.build_history'
Don't know whether this is useful to anyone.
I found the missing module in the commit a800be089f.
Creating a folder 'qiskit_metal/_gui/widgets/build_history' and coping the content seemed to have solved the issue for me.
hi @leo07010 ,
can you please fill up the top part of the bug form? I cannot replicate the issue on my machine and I do not recall seeing this before. So need that information to try anything else.

@leo07010 , I believe you see it, but unless I reproduce it and see the same error, I cannot help you.
Please, let's start by provididing the info at the top of the form (OS, library and python version)
Oh，OK
Alright, so it looks like you and I are both on windows. That is good.
This is a problem: python 3.8.5.
if you had installed qiskit-metal using the environment.yml, you would be seeing 3.7.8. How come you see 3.8.5? This makes me think that you might be using the wrong environment.
Can you please create a new conda environment using the environment.yml, or alternatively make sure you are executing a kernel from your previously created conda environment inside your jupyter notebook?
yes I can
I successfully solved this problem, I think we can’t use powershell to install the package, but use anaconda prompt
Because I did exactly the same thing in the prompt and successfully executed it
I use Powershell.
-> jupyter notebook and jupyter lab, default kernel is base when you launch them from a Powershell that is not running as admin. Instead, if you running Powershell as admin, jupyter notebook will default to the kernel of the currently active conda environment (I do not think jupyter lab does the same).
-> there are instructions on the README to create a new kernel for the specific conda environment so that you can select it in jupyter notebook and jupyter lab, no matter how you run PowerShell.
The anaconda prompt might actually work well too (did not test it), but I wonder if the setup will need some other directive changes after the reboot.
Anyways, I hope this note helps in case you find further problems that might be resulting from installing things that way.
Closing the issue for now
