A list of small annoying details that make CP2K more cumbersome to build:
There is a cron-job which mirrors INSTALL.md to howto:compile. Currently, it runs once per night. Maybe I should run it more often?
The compile_with_cuda page should now become a part of the DBCSR documentation, which could live here, here, or simply as Markdown in the repo.
Since CP2K is now (almost) free of CUDA code, the Cuda section  in CP2K's INSTALL.md should be cleared out.  Instead we should link to the appropriate pages in DBCSR, ELPA, SIRIUS,...
do not make it very clear visually that the toolchain script is the recommended way to go for installing
What do you have in mind? The toolchain is mentioned in the beginning of section 2.
For the time being, I would leave the documentation on how to compile DBCSR/CUDA within CP2K since DBCSR compiles with the same arch file as of CP2K. Of course, we can make a link in INSTALL.MD which points to the DBCSR installation guide (which is the Makefile.inc)
Then in the next DBCSR releases, we can think to improve it (eventually DBCSR will compile with cmake).
There is a cron-job which mirrors INSTALL.md to howto:compile. Currently, it runs once per night. Maybe I should run it more often?
I'm sorry, it seemed to me like the two instructions weren't quite the same because of the more prominent /!\ warning signs on howto:compile. My bad.
No, I don't think it is necessary to run this job more often.
do not make it very clear visually that the toolchain script is the recommended way to go for installing
What do you have in mind? The toolchain is mentioned in the beginning of section 2.
I mean that when you just glance over the INSTALL.md, it is not made obvious, visually, that the toolchain script is the way to go for installing pre-requisites.
Writing the actual instruction  for calling the toolchain there would make stand out more. I'll open a PR and you'll see what I mean.
The compile_with_cuda page should now become a part of the DBCSR documentation, which could live here, here, or simply as Markdown in the repo.
Since CP2K is now (almost) free of CUDA code, the Cuda section  in CP2K's INSTALL.md should be cleared out. Instead we should link to the appropriate pages in DBCSR, ELPA, SIRIUS,...
and
Of course, we can make a link in INSTALL.MD which points to the DBCSR installation guide (which is the Makefile.inc)
Well, but then you're asking people who want to compile CP2K and don't care about the inner workings of DBCSR to read both CP2K and DBCSR documentation. Since DBCSR is still compiled from within CP2K (it is not an entirely external dependency that is compiled entirely separately), I don't think it is fair to ask this of CP2K users.
Making a link in the INSTALL.md to the DBCSR installation guide is not really helpful either, users need to know how to pass DBCSR compilation options to the CP2K toolchain.
I think, for the moment at least, the options for installing DBCSR need to be made available and documented to CP2K users (thereby fixing issue #127 as well)
For the time being, I would leave the documentation on how to compile DBCSR/CUDA within CP2K.
Fine with me. The downside is that then there will be some duplication (and possibly confusion) because the DBCSR-only users will also need their documentation, right?
because of the more prominent /!\ warning signs
Hehe, yes there is a bit of regex magic going on :-)
I'll open a PR and you'll see what I mean.
Perfect !
As you probably figured, the warning boxes are triggered by the ⚠️ emoji. In Dokuwiki we are using the note plugin. So, we could also make use of the other box types using e.g. the 💡 emoji.
