Those seem to be the only major issue affecting ARTIQ on Python 3.6; after working around the above problems, the GUI, the master and the compiler essentially work without any particular trouble.
There are however problems with migen, and conda will need some attention (recompiling packages, switching qt to the anaconda package).
This is becoming an annoying issue now that Anaconda installs 3.6 by default. This breaks ARTIQ 2.x as well.
Using 3.5 with Anaconda only needs a documentation update.
Also check this: http://bugs.python.org/issue27500
Does this bug appear in Python 3.6?
I think so. ARTIQ works around it with py 3.5, what I meant is check if the workaround is still needed.
We should not make a release with py36 mandatory before there is a reasonable ecosystem to do most of the day-to-day work in py36, i.e. wait for ContinuumIO/anaconda-issues#1315
There is now a Miniconda release for py3.6 (released 22nd Feburary)
there are hardcoded python3.5 interpreter references in many places (shebang, doc, ...).
Not anymore (at least I can't grep any).
pythonparser has a built-in list of supported versions and will bail out on 3.6.
There is now a stub Python 3.6 parser. (There are no 3.6-specific features like format strings, but also 3.5 features are already missing...)
Are there still obstacles to the 3.6 upgrade?  What benefits are there for the 3.6 upgrade other than playing nicer with the Anaconda default install?
You can run ARTIQ on Debian testing (like I do), which ships with Python 3.6.
@whitequark this seems like a minor convenience for the developer, but not really anything for the end user.  Are there features which are compelling/useful for the end user?
Other than being able to use Python 3.6 f"format strings", I don't think so.
I don't know for how long Python 3.5 will keep working on conda. 32-bit Windows is already broken (which is why we no longer have ARTIQ packages for that OS). Not having Python 3.6 support (or in general, not tracking what everybody else is doing with conda) may get the project stuck or requiring lots of conda workarounds.
@sbourdeauducq ack.  Is the conda ecosystem ready for ARTIQ to upgrade to 3.6?  This was one of the previous issues raised about it.
Is there a package in particular you are worried about? Otherwise, the whole Anaconda distribution has been Python 3.6 by default for a while, and I don't expect problems other than the usual yak-shaving.
The situation has reversed from what it was. Now 3.6 is eminent and sticking with 3.5 will ultimately lead to what @sbourdeauducq has described.
@jordens @sbourdeauducq all ack.
32-bit Windows is already broken (which is why we no longer have ARTIQ packages for that OS).
The Python 3.5 conda breakage continues. On 64-bit Windows, if you install the latest Anaconda, then create a Python 3.5 environment inside it and activate it, then the "conda install" command cannot be used from inside the environment due to SSL module issues.
Funded by NIST
(NB: ARTIQ already runs fine on 3.6 and 3.7, at least on Linux, if installed from source or via Nix)
Available for Linux now, and the anaconda.org m-labs channel is no longer required.
Windows support will come later using similar techniques and the WFVM toolkit
https://git.m-labs.hk/M-Labs/nix-scripts/src/branch/wfvm
Works on Windows now.
I couldn't get Visual Studio to work with CMake, so I simply copied the old conda binary packages, which happen to still work with the Python 3.7 environment. This will cause an issue with ARM (Zynq) support but maybe we can just move to MSYS2 instead.
Still does not work properly on Windows, usually conda will downgrade Python to 3.5 and this seems to be due to the llvmlite-artiq package.
Seems OK with the beta packages now, except that they are affected by https://git.m-labs.hk/M-Labs/nix-scripts/issues/28
Installing the legacy binutils package might be a workaround, this one does not involve Python at all so hopefully that works.
Finally, and at great expense, this is working now.
People should really reconsider using that cretinous Windows "operating system" in the labs...
Would that that were an option everywhere. Thanks for all the work! I'll try it out now
Might still be some issue with https://conda.m-labs.hk/artiq-beta/ not being updated (related to the Kasli timing failures)...
@sbourdeauducq out of curiosity, what was the issue(s) here?
Issues about what?
With the windows conda packages?
#1471
The last issue was https://git.m-labs.hk/M-Labs/nix-scripts/issues/28
As for why Windows is crappy, there are some reasons in https://itvision.altervista.org/why-windows-10-sucks.html
Looking good!
As for why Windows is crappy, there are some reasons in https://itvision.altervista.org/why-windows-10-sucks.html
Amusingly, this guy also has a similar list of reasons why Linux is crappy: https://itvision.altervista.org/why.linux.is.not.ready.for.the.desktop.current.html
macOS anyone?
Maybe I spoke too soon. I'm seeing these error messages for Experiments which use the core:
That was just running led.py from the tutorial.
Download this conda package and install it manually, replacing the currently installed one.
https://nixbld.m-labs.hk/build/78740
Works! Now fully running in python 3.7, including kernels.
I should also mention that the upgrade to 3.7 has cleared up a few annoying typing-related issues which used to throw warnings.
Thanks for making this work.
Sorry if I missed it somewhere, but I am unsure what the current best option is for installing the release version of ARTIQ with Python 3.7 on Windows.
Using conda, it seems that the only package required from the beta channel is llvmlite-artiq, due to the python<3.6 requirement of the version from the non-beta channel (even though both have the same version number). #1469 (comment) makes it sound like this is intentional.
Is it a good idea to use the below combination of packages, or are there risks with mixing the beta channel version of llvmlite-artiq with release packages? And if this is not a good idea, what would you suggest instead (given some unfortunate boundary conditions regarding the choice of OS)?
It's only available on ARTIQ-6; ARTIQ-5 uses the legacy packages.
FYI: https://pythoninsider.blogspot.com/2020/10/python-35-is-no-longer-supported.html
