On AMD hardware ( R9-290x ) driver version Adrenalin 2020 for Ubuntu there are segfaults --proc-opencl-multi after the third benchmark of cosmos. and immediate on the first of qft, and supreme.
--proc-opencl-single reports no problems on the AMD hardware.
Something async going wrong in the CL pipeline there ? No problem reported on old and new NVidia hardware and drivers, nor on POCL CPU-only OpenCL implementation. All ran on Linux Ubuntu 18.04
This is not a breaking thing as -single works just fine, however I have seen massive speed increases on accelator hardware with --multi enabled.

I'm looking into it. Possibly vaguely related, I notice something "funky" about the C++ time keeping on a SnuCL cluster, for example, in the benchmarks. I know there's an ambiguity in various definitions of time, on any modern personal computer, and I expect a (hopefully) tiny bit of "fuzziness" between physical clock time and the form of user time I intend from the STL, but the times reported on my Beowulf cluster seem really off. On my system for example, 100 trials times the millisecond count reported per trial on average might seem to imply like ~30 seconds overall for the qubit count, whereas the physical clock time might be very obviously noticeably less than that. (That might tend both ways, under and over reported, depending on system.) You might want to break out an independent stopwatch, as a control. We do assume log normal statistics, in cases, and maybe that's a problem.
I'll definitely be jumping into issues with multi-accelerator, next.
Unittest fails fast, unfortunately I can't continue after the SIGSERV, but then I could make a list of what fails more.

output of --single does work but has a lot of fail in it

Again: --multi is an awesome feature. On NV, Intel and CPU-only they work like a charm cutting rendering time in half. I could do a full 27 qubit [cosmos] benchmark on one K80 core in 45 mins instead of the previous 1.5 hours.
After further testing it looks as though the AMD 2020 OCL drivers have requirements for the CPU that are higher then the previous 18/16 versions; Luxmark also reports errors that are similar to Qrack. However there are no minimum CPU feature requirements mentioned on the release notes of the driver. But it could be as simple as a toggle in the driver compiler to set this behaviour. https://www.amd.com/en/support/kb/release-notes/rn-amdgpu-unified-linux-20-20
Edit: I found the reason, the driver does not support the card. R9-270 fell of the support list.
