Hi there,
I'm having trouble running a simulation which uses more than 8gb of RAM; I often get an error
Error: Garbage collector could not allocate 16384 bytes of memory for major heap section.
on stderr, the output on stdout at that time was
This happens on a server with 512gb of memory, at the time of error roughly 100 were still free.
On a "normal" PC with 16gb the same tends to fail with an error for which I attach a stack trace; on stdout I had
System is Ubuntu 14.04 (kernel 4.4.0-101-generic), and the latest Liquid.dll version (git branch db34962); due to a lack of a native mono runtime on these machines I used "mkbundle" to compile them to a standalone executable, but I'm assuming this is not the problem.
Thanks for your help with this!
EDIT: error log attached.
stderr.txt
EDIT2: if it helps, this is the mono runtime:
My guess (that's all I've got) is that your threads are being allocated with a really small stack (and possibly heap limitations as well). This has nothing to do with physical memory AFAICT. Quick search for the error message on the Internet turned up lots of people running into this (for other applications). For example: stackoverflow thread, mono GC docs. It looks like there was a bug fix last year for this. Here's the bug detail.
Since you're the only one who's reported it, I'm going to have to go with it being unique to your  environment. There isn't really much I can do on this end. Best of luck solving it. If you find the right GC flags (if indeed that's it), please post back here so others can utilize your findings. I'll leave this open for a while in case you get more info or a fix.
Thanks a lot Dave! I'm suspecting it's unique to the environment I'm on as well; unfortunately I cannot set mono flags on the target machine as mono is not installed there (thanks for the links, they were helpful! The problem is that mkbundle seems to not bundle the appropriate flags, so I'm hoping to get a newer mono version installed on the target machines and report back), but I'll keep trying to fix it in case it helps someone.
