Talking with Neal yesterday at JQI it's clear that not everybody is going to know about how to get ARTIQ up and running with what we've got so far. One improvement is explicit discussion of which OSs are supported. Here's my go. Please add to installing.rst.
Many laboratory instrument drivers are only available precompiled for Windows. To facilitate use of such hardware devices as ARTIQ supports deployment on 32-bit Windows 7 machines. Presently 64-bit Windows 7, Windows 8 and Windows 10 are not supported.  The most thoroughly tested OSs are Xubuntu 14.04 LTS (64-bit) and ____ (SB fav). NB: Xubuntu is an Ubuntu distribution with the lightweight XFCE user interface. Running ARTIQ on OS X and other versions of Windows is supported using VirtualBox and a Xubuntu.
It's also clear not everybody knows how to setup a Virtual Machine. To my view the VM this remains the most straightforward way of getting users up and running ARTIQ. I've edited my VBox instructions for Ion Storage users to make them more generic. I propose including this as an installation subpage.
Make sure Virtualization is enabled for your computer
The operating system (Windows/OSX) that's running the virtualbox is called the Host OS. The virtualized OS (Xubuntu) is called the Guest OS.
Please clean it up and submit a patch to the manual if you care about this. There is a lot of nonsense and sloppiness in there.
Please be specific about your suggestions. Bare in mind that the developers
are not the target audience. I'm not at a machine where I can generate a
patch.
On Sat, Jul 4, 2015 at 1:17 PM, Robert Jördens notifications@github.com
wrote:
Please clean it up and submit a patch to the manual if you care about
this. There is a lot of nonsense and sloppiness in there.
—
Reply to this email directly or view it on GitHub
#64 (comment).
Unless you are willing to get this piece into good shape, write a patch, and keep maintaining/updating it, I suspect it will just hang around here. One reason is that you are the only one making these VMs.
I agree with Robert that attempting to provide comprehensive and up to date installation instructions for VirtualBox is going to be a lot of work. Work I'm not interested in investing over time. However, I do believe it can be helpful to users if there is a place where we can exchange information on the topic of running ARTIQ on VirtualBox. This thread is a good start.
I propose including a link to this discussion on the ARTIQ installation instructions page. Please flag as area:documentation.
How is doing it in Virtualbox different than on a regular PC?
How is doing it in Virtualbox different than on a regular PC?
The stock version of Ubuntu 14.04 includes Gnome and lots of graphics intensive GUI features. VirtualBox is much snappier with XFCE than Gnome. This is why I use Xubuntu 14.04.
When running Linux natively on a PC the hardware Virtualization setting (often in BIOS) ought not to have a performance impact. When running Linux within a VirtualBox environment enabling hardware Virtualization has a large performance improvement.
When running Linux natively on a PC, USB devices are immediately available to Linux. When running Linux within VirtualBox an additional step is needed to make USB devices available to the Guest OS.
The VirtualBox resource configuration recommendations I made suggest that ARTIQ ought to work fine on a resource constrained system. 1 GB memory, 2 cores and 10 GB disk space works for me. Knowing what resource allocation is adequate for ARTIQ is more important on a VirtualBox installation since the Guest OS is sharing resources with the Host OS.
