The process tomography for a teleported state seems providing awkward results. Conversely, state tomography for the same circuit works just fine
Specifically, this is the ideal Chi matrix for a X Gate.

And this is the Chi matrix as output of process tomography

code.txt
returning a Chi matrix equal or close to id_choi
There are two issues here:
You have commented out the measurement and conditional corrections on the ancilla qubits needed for teleportation. Without these the output state of the teleported qubit is effectively random.
The process tomography function cannot really handle a teleportation circuit as the function assumes you are preparing and measuring the same qubits. In tomography of a teleportation circuit your input states would be on qubit-0, and your final measurements would be on qubit-2. Where as the process tomography function is applying both the different input states and measurements to qubit-2, which is one of the teleportation ancilla that should be always prepared in 0.
Chriseclectic, thanks for replying.

Indeed, this is confirmed by state tomography. Please see the code below, which performs state tomography by comparing the teleported state at qubit [2] for different setting of qubit [0] (x, h, or arbitrary u3)
This is the ideal density matrix of u3(0.5,0.5,0.5) applied to state |0>

And this is the density matrix as output of the state tomography for qubit [2] (Bob's side) with qubit [0] (Alice's side) initialized to u3(0.5,0.5,0.5) as well

Thanks!
Ah ok, I didn't pay enough attention to your circuit. Yes if you do the controlled gates then my first point doesn't matter. State tomography works because you are performing measurements on qubit-2 for an input prepared on qubit-0. Process tomography doesn't work for the reasons I said above: the function is returning circuits that prepare the different tomographic input states on qubit-2, and tomographic measurement on qubit-2. You need the input states prepared on qubit-0, not qubit-2, and measurements on qubit-2.
Any hint or suggestion on how to do it will be greatly appreciated.
There isn't an easy way to do this at the moment. You would have to edit the tomography functions to specify lists of input and output qubits separately.
Chriseclectic, I believe you mean something like this:
It seems working just fine, if needed by someone I can share the code (a couple of lines in process_tomography_set)
Hi @MarcelloCa I put in a patch with this fix in #1454, can you have a look and see if that works for you?
