We could make use of the device enumeration by passing None to the driver in case -d is not used (it already defaults to None).
For simulation: we could have -P/--product default to None and have this mean "simulation mode".
The downside of this is that other controllers (3 of them) enter simulation mode when omitting -d/--device.
So we lose a bit of consistency if we use -P/--product for that in the lda controller :/
On the other hand, the pxi6733 controller is using -C/--channels for this purpose, however it does not have any -d/--device parameter.
Or we could just drop the "using first enumerated device" from the driver.
Having "no product" mean simulation mode is a bit cryptic for me. I would suggest requiring the serial number always. Explicit is nice. The fact that the lda driver can use the first enumerated device does not really need to be exposed on the controller. Regarding simulation mode, they should be a different commandline switch alltogether. Then all the problems due to abusing other switches to trigger simulation mode are not an issue anymore.
All right, adding an explicit --simulation to all controllers then?
I'm OK with that.
Yeah.
Sounds good.
Implemented in 515aa96
AFAICT after this change some controllers will misbehave if you omit -d.
For LDA it's not an issue but indeed for other controllers the following scenario will cause an error:
I could just test for that with some:
if not args.simulation and args.device is None:
which would print an error message instructing to use one of the two options and tell to use -h/--help for more information.
Or,
In those problematic controllers replacing:
if args.simulation:
with
if args.simulation or args.device is None:
I would then need to add to the help message of -d/--device parameter that omitting this parameter implies simulation mode.
which one is preferred?
1st one I would say.
Implemented in a73776b
What happens if you specify both --simulation and -d?
As long as you specify --simulation, you are in simulation mode
That should be documented. What's the usage scenario for that? Modifying the device database to add --simulation while keeping the serial number stored?
Yes for instance, or we could advocate for a separate "simulation" device database, dunno what's best.
ack for the documentation point btw.
