When plotting a small circuit the output image displays the TeX beamer overlay and also trims too much of the image on the sides.
When plotting a circuit I expect the circuit to be shown completely and to also not have any additional clutter but the circuit.
When plotting by the following:
the following image is displayed:

Note the beamer overlay on the bottom right, and the bras being cut off on the left.
The trimming function is somehow trimming too much of the input image which is undesirable. The beamer overlay can be hidden with the appropriate beamer settings.
Run the example code
I'm trying to use OpenQASM to make circuit plots. It would be nice if a stand-alone command-line tool was available, because I can see this being useful. However, it would need to support vector images, whereas it currently converts to pngs. E.g. output to pdf or eps.
In an effort to display a Hadamard as an "H" gate I changed the code to
which somehow resolved the above two issues and produces a decent image. I am not sure why.
I'd still like a way to obtain a vector image though.
With the latest release you should be able to get Hadamard gate without manually specifying an unroller.
I have also noticed the over-trimming for small circuits, which should be fixed.
The OpenQASM->svg tool you are asking for has been suggested by a user in #311.
The OpenQASM->svg tool you are asking for has been suggested by a user in #311.
It seems that would be a standalone tool. I figure that it would be relatively straightforward to wrap the plot_circuit functionality in a script that can be added to the qiskit distribution. At least until a pure python alternative is implemented (then it should be fairly straightforward to switch out the script backend).
@eddieschoute I wrote a quick function to correct (in a dirty way) some of the drawbacks of latex_drawer (used internally by plot_circuit). The function just change the LaTeX code produced:
You need an import re in your Python file, and I think the problem of size is not really fixed by the function.
@nelimeee thanks. I will try to fix a few things in the latex code. But it seems like the code you posted is truncated? I don't see the lines that the comment refers to for font and beamer.
I edited my comment with the full function! Thanks =)
