This is a checklist of tasks to do before the repository becomes public. Some are proposals of things that could be implemented or improved and should be discussed, possibly here if on github, take them as ideas:
Needed for Launch
Immediately after open-sourcing
Optional stuff:
Some comments:
asking folks to check code with black
What does this mean @nathanshammah ?
consider using docker for CI even beyond PyQuil (In a python-only environment this may be an overkill, but certainly it makes everything robust)
consider adding templates for PRs or issues: It would certainly help new contributors, may be cumbersome for UF team.
These IMO are not needed for launch. They can be added later.
have guides for contributors and maintainers and possibly autoreleases to pypi, test pypi.
We have contributor guides already no? @karalekas How much work is it to set up the autoreleases?
@willzeng edited that item to make it more clear:
check code formatting with black or pycodestyle.
@willzeng
another potential checklist item: type checking with mypy. this is another code quality thing that can be enforced with CI, and is of course easier to implement the sooner you do it. my guess would be about half a day, only because I'd need to understand the QPROGRAM issue (#253)
yet another potential checklist item: enforcing code coverage. this can be done using coveralls. we're currently at ~85%, and id bet we could get it over 90% in an hour
these two I think are definitely worth doing, even if you choose to pass for now on mypy / coverage stuff:
yet another potential checklist item: enforcing code coverage. this can be done using coveralls. we're currently at ~85%, and id bet we could get it over 90% in an hour
@karalekas, about this: we had a discussion some time back (#122), and neither one of us seemed to know the difference between coveralls and pytest-cov. Are they just the same service, the former wrapped with APIs so that it shows up in the GH PR conversation, the latter more basic? The first one can be more helpful, the second one is less "intrusive". Personally, I am happy to go for it.
+1 for coverage and mypy.
Added CHANGELOG.md and README.md bullets to the issue description, which we can discuss tomorrow @nathanshammah
NB: Once we open-source the repo, we should drop the review-requested/assigned restriction on triggering the build.
@karalekas These are the current usage stats:

#316 checked a box here
With #330 the needed parts for this issue are checked and so will close this issue
