Make visualizations more appealing.
To do:
Related issues: #1246
For the city plots, this is what I have so far (continuing with my example plot from #1246):

I've been playing with the angle to make it look like it's higher up, for example:

@nonhermitian what do you think about that?
Is there a reason to use city plots as a visualization tool? I've never used them myself & tend to find them hard to read in talks.
I will get a good set of angles for that.
I guess it depends on ones taste for plotting. Should we do two 2d plots, one real and one imag, or perhaps a 3d one with amplitude and color for phase. Or two city plots. All depends.
Two 2-dimensional plots strike me as better. Especially if people are going to be using these functions to produce figures for papers/talks.
One suggestion: the plots should use a diverging colormap, with the zero point of the colormap set to zero.
@nonhermitian and @mtreinish could we make sure whatever we do gets shown in the notebook Qiskit/qiskit-tutorials#388.
As I agree the plots need work.
I would also add that the Bloch sphere should be next two each other and the same is true for the qsphere.
@jaygambetta for the bloch sphere I think that I already did that in #1229 But, not for the qsphere, I can add that in a follow up PR easily enough.
ok. When it is merged we should run the tutorial notebook again an update.
@jaygambetta @mtreinish can we change the options['width'] and options['height'] to just options['figsize'] to be inline with what mpl and everyone else is using?
Also why do we have the show kwarg?  We are returning a mpl figure, so the show should just be the usual call. Same goes for filename.
The height and width things are there because that's what was used for the interactive plots. The same with the options dicts as a concept. I don't like that interface at all, but I figured it was better to make it non-breaking and just do it slightly weird.
As for show and filename they're there mostly because the previous use case for these functions didn't return a Figure and instead would actually just call show() internally return nothing (unless you passed in a filename). I think a lot of people who use these just want to output it or save it and not deal with the figure object.
But would it not make sense to have the functions behave in the same way as building any other mpl figure/ax?  One can just do fig.show() or fig.savefig().  We do not need extra kwargs to do what is already built in.
@nonhermitian should we close this now that #1359 has landed?
Sure
