Hello!
I am a new ARTIQ user who is learning ARTIQ with Pipistrello. I am trying to run rtio dot py progam and observe the waveforms that it produces. I am using an Intronix LOGICPORT 34 channel logic analyzer. However, none of the channels seem to be showing the waveform that rtio dot py should produce. One issue might be that I am running ARTIQ through a Ubuntu Linux virtual machine and having the logic analyzer software downloaded on  Windows machine. I do not believe this should be a problem though.
Can you please provide a video or instructions you used to connect logic analyzer to the Pipistrello and how to interpret the results.
Thanks!
Stanley Ebenezer David
You are not providing the relevant details. Is the PPP connection successful and are you running the kernel correctly?
Yes, I was able to run the led dot py successfully and can control the state of the LED by entering inputs to the artiq command line
So I guess this means the PPP connection is successful and I am running the kernel correctly
Yes. Which TTL pin are you using? If it's a bidirectional pin, you need to put it into output mode by calling output() followed by delay(). Other than that, it's certainly an electrical or logic analyzer problem, check that you are connected to the right pin and try with a different measurement device (e.g. oscilloscope or even digital multimeter if you make the waveform slow enough).
I am connecting to TTL0
My issue is that I am a bit new to logic analyzers and oscilloscopes so I was wondering if you could might post a video showing how to do this connection. I think this would be very helpful for new users because generating waveforms is a common task in quantum control I guess
TTL0 maps the the physical pin 2 on the Pipistrello right?
There are multiple rows of pins on the Pipistrello (A/B/C) and you also need to connect the ground.
Surely there must be someone in your group who can show you how to measure voltages?
Yes I am fairly sure I have everything connected properly. So the problem is most likely due to the fact that I am using an Ubuntu Linux Virtual Machine to run ARTIQ and a Windows laptop to run the Intronix Logicport logic analyzer that I am using. The Intronix Logicport software does not seem to be supported by Linux so the signals that I am generating are not related at all to Pipistrello's output. This is just my guess for now on what the problem is so let me know if it makes sense.
What type of logic analyzer did you use to test Pipistrello? Perhaps I will try to buy that one. I guess the best way to test is to use an oscilloscope because that is software independent.
There is certainly no particular logic analyzer that I can recommend for ARTIQ, but if you are looking for a cheap one that works with Linux, you can check out Saleae. Yes, as I said, you can test ARTIQ itself with an oscilloscope, or even DMM. Or test your Intronix device with some other signal source (e.g. function generator) and fix any problems.
