Tested with AWG 520 and RohdeSchwarz_SGS100A driver (presumably others fail aswell, these are just the first 2 in my init).
Problems come from the parameter IDN and the meta-data timeout.
IDN is overwritten in some instruments (and overwriting should be possible in inherited instruments) and then complains upon initialization.
The fix I propose is to have an overwrite=True option in the add_parameter in which overwriting does not cause an exception.
The second problem is with timeout. This occurs because @alexcjohnson  has introduced it as a manual parameter for VISA instruments while the meta-data of @MerlinSmiles refers self._timeout. These two cause a conflict. (I need to look into it a bit deeper but this is my theory on this one).
So to fix this
Did #194 not fix the IDN issue (at least for existing instruments)?
We also encountered the timeout issue. #201 fixes it (at least for our IVVI and Keithley driver)
Did #194 not fix the IDN issue (at least for existing instruments)?
By looking at the code it should. What I did was switch branches to the master I would say I did this after #194 got merged but I'll test when I'm back in the lab.
We also encountered the timeout issue. #201 fixes it (at least for our IVVI and Keithley driver)
I think this should fix the second issue, have you tested it with snapshot? I would think the snapshot now contains two values for timeout (in the dictionary) that it overwrites with itself. I'd say it should work fine.
I'll test both in the afternoon and give an update on wether they work.
#201  solves the timeout issue, I propose we merge this ASAP.
#194 does not solve the IDN issue completely, It does it in most cases but in the case of the IVVI (VISA instrument with some non-standard properties (e.g. no IDN command) It breaks down.
I would propose an additional overwrite=True option in the add_parameter. This way the IDN can be overwritten in the special case of the IVVI. It can then return the data that is needed to construct the snapshot.
Below I have posted the failure I get when initializing the IVVI. It relates to the get_dacs function relying on the use of snapshot, which is broken because it asks for IDN properties that don't work.
@peendebak , You mentioned you have a working IVVI driver, are you using a different version than me or is it just the updating?
@alexcjohnson I will now switch back to my old branch before these bugs where introduced. I would appreciate it a lot if you can look into this (it should not be too hard to fix) but I just don't have the time at the moment but would like to prevent diverging.
Below: error trace for the IVVI driver
