When running the packaging scripts for openSUSE package of python-quantum-blackbird I get this failure in the test suite:
Complete log with all details.
Hi @mcepl. Thank you for posting this issue. Could you provide some more details on how you're installing the Blackbird package. If I understand it correctly, you've grabbed it from OpenSUSE, running the tests that are included there. Is this correct?
I noticed that you've pushed a commit referencing this issue to bmwiedemann/openSUSE, seemingly just skipping the tests on 32bit systems. Is everything else working fine apart from this?
No, I am building the package for openSUSE. You have attached complete log of all packages used. You see that everything else is working just fine.
I understand. Unfortunately, we cannot guarantee that the package will work fully on all systems (in this case, there seem to be issues with running the tests on i586 processors). If you could provide more details of your Python environment, e.g. what packages are installed as well as your operating system, we could test it out a bit more, although if the issue is related to i586 I'm afraid this might be something that we cannot guarantee will work.
If you could provide more details of your Python environment, e.g. what packages are installed as well as your operating system, we could test it out a bit more,
What part of https://github.com/XanaduAI/blackbird/files/6466474/_log.txt you don't understand?
openSUSE_Tumbleweed-i586
Hi @mcepl! As @thisac mentions above, unfortunately we do not provide support for i586 builds/architectures; our tests and code is currently written only with x86_64 in mind.
If you find the reason why the tests are failing on i586, feel free to contribute a PR back! While we aren't actively supporting i586, external contributions that add support for additional architectures would be most welcomed.
It's funny, because setarch is part of every util-linux package, but whatever. However, if it means that 32bit arch is not supported, then I will just skip those. No problem.
Hi @mcepl. Unfortunately, since we aren't actively supporting i586, I will be closing this issue. Hopefully everything works fine on 64bit systems, but don't hesitate to open another issue if you find that something isn't working as it should.
