Is your feature request related to a use case or problem? Please describe.
Quirk (https://algassert.com/quirk) is an open source quantum circuit editor and simulator. It is a widely used tool for both education and research.
It was proposed in https://tinyurl.com/cirq-visualizations#heading=h.2nfg3hb3jqb to have an integration of the Quirk editor with Cirq. This issue is to discuss the requirements and proposal.
Describe the solution you'd like
Integrate the Quirk editor with Cirq s.t.
[optional] Describe alternatives/workarounds you've considered
What is the urgency from your perspective for this issue? Is it blocking important work?
P2 - we should do it in the next couple of quarters
Hi.
I would like to work on this issue.
The goals of the issue seem straightforward to add. Let's discuss the finer details in the next Cirq sync.
I will set up the local environment till then and play around with some examples.
Have created a Draft PR with a base module ready.
#4492
@tanujkhattar
Your suggestion to use https://github.com/adgt/pyQuirk works really well, but it's not perfect. Some keywords aren't recognized while exporting a cirq.Cirquit to a QASM. Also, I believe that we don't need the complete set of features provided by Quirk as Users would just be interested in playing around with their personal circuits. Plus, the UI has room for improvement.
If we continue to simply use adgt's pyQuirk, we will have to implement several helper functions. I am still investigating a workaround for this. Till then, I am rooting for a custom widget.
What do you think?
I have decided to go forward and create a Cirq-specific variant of pyQuirk.
Performance
pyQuirk might have some additional features that don't exactly align with what Cirq does. We could remove them completely, thus speeding up the load-up time.
Cirq-like
pyQuirk might be missing some key features that a Cirq user might want to use to visualize. We could use the existing API to create new features.
Widget vs Module
We should also discuss whether we want to make this an ipywidget (not a great idea according to me) or a python module that can be simply imported and used seamlessly.
Let me know what you think about this.
