We have set aliases for channel parameters in a station config file. Before v0.9.0, the aliases were assigned to the main instrument, now they are assigned to the specific channel instead.
In the example below, the alias temp_alias becomes an attribute of the channel A, not DummyChannelInstrument as before.
I don't know which behavior is the intended one, but I am reporting it since it breaks code (at least it broke ours) and it wasn't documented in the changelog. Maybe this was the intention of commit de8f90e ?  @Dominik-Vogel ?
Qcodes master @ 00ec653
Hi. No news about that? Is this behavior expected?
Hi, I came across this as well. For reference, here's a MWE code snippet tested with qcodes 0.38.1:
The example Station configuration in the documentation has this:
So the documentation is inconsistent with the behavior. Which one is intended? (I personally would like to have the behavior from pre v0.9 / the one that is shown in the documentation, so that I can give semantic names to the submodule parameters and don't have to think about the specific channel numbers.)
Can e.g. @astafan8 or @jenshnielsen comment?
sorry for not responding earlier. I think i finally udnerstand the issue:
you'd like to use alias to create an alias to a parameter on the root instrument: e.g. qdac.ch01.v --> qdac.cutter_gate. And apparently that's how it worked in v0.9 (that's a looong time ago :) ), and now it's not possible because the alias is created at the same level as the original parameter e.g. qdac.ch01.v --> qdac.ch01.cutter_gate.
first of all, it's very unfortunate that this behavior changed without noticing and thank you for filing the issue back then!
now, i don't think it's fair to change the behavior again, it's better to fix the documentation and keep alias for aliasing on the same level, and add another option called alias_at_root (or with a better name) which would create an alias at the root instrument. how do you like this approach? @mgunyho @Jajiko @fblanchetNaN
Yes, exactly. We have a device with many channels, and we would like to name certain parameters from those channels, like the qdac.ch01.v -> qdac.cutter_gate example. A solution like the alias_at_root could be good.
awesome!
would anyone be willing to start a PR? :)
add another option called alias_at_root
seems like a great solution 💖
