Electrons are a fundamental building block of the Covalent workflow. Currently, there are several integration tests for the electron.py module in tests/covalent_tests/workflow/electron_test.py. The purpose of this issue is to stimulate the addition of unit tests. Considering the size of this file, we expect several contributors to help add unit tests for the untested methods/functions. Even small additions here is impactful and greatly appreciated.
Within the unit test file, we sould like to have at least one test method corresponding to each source method. In cases where source code has branches or other logic, all logical conditions in the source should ideally be covered during unit test execution.
Below, we list possible parts of the electron module (Electron object) for you to write a test.
Covalent uses pytest to run unit tests.  The pre-requisite requirements can be installed with pip install -r tests/requirements.txt and then run using pytest as follows:
Note that pull requests will generate a code coverage report on Codecov.  This report is then posted as a comment so that coverage may be inspected line-by-line.
When trying to write the getattr tests, I saw this comment that refers to "magic functions". What is a magic function?

Hey, could I take this? I'll work on building tests init, set_metadata, and get_metadata.
I'll try to understand Electrons better when I'm doing that so I can create a few more tests later on.
Hey, could I take this? I'll work on building tests init, set_metadata, and get_metadata. I'll try to understand Electrons better when I'm doing that so I can create a few more tests later on.
Hi @StreakSharn, that would be great! I'm going to add your name beside the tests you're interested in. And if you're interested in adding more tests later, feel free to let me know.
Feel free to reach out if you have any questions.
Really appreciate your contribution! 😃
Thanks! I was following CONTRIBUTING.md, and I don't quite understand a problem I'm having.
When running python setup.py webapp after executing all the previous steps, I get:
running webapp error: [WinError 2] The system cannot find the file specified
I haven't made changes apart from adding encoding='utf-8' to setup.py, since it couldn't decode README.md. Would you know what file the system can't find, and how I could solve the error?
Hi @StreakSharn, one thing I can think of is to check whether you're running python setup.py webapp from the root covalent directory. If you're in some other subdirectory, that might explain why the system is not able to find the specified file.
Let me know if that fixes it!
@StreakSharn the WinError suggests to me you are using Windows.  Covalent does not currently support Windows.  For a list of supported platforms, see this page.
