I've been trying to install toqito but I have trouble with the cvxpy package. I get the following error:
ERROR: Could not build wheels for cvxpy which use PEP 517 and cannot be installed directly 
Until last week I had no problem installing and using toqito. After some search I tried different combinations of versions of pip and python with no success. I even tried to install the package on Repl.it and got the same error message.
Can I get a confirmation that a clean install of toqito is still possible and perhaps some way of using it if it's a problem with my computer? (e.g. on Google Colab , although it has python 3.6.9 )
Hi Seb,
Thanks for the question.
Part of the automated build process is to do a clean build/install, so I can confirm that this works. I would suggest either running pip install --upgrade toqito or pip uninstall toqito followed by pip install toqito. Hope that helps, and let me know if not.
Thanks @vprusso , I was able to run the setup.py install and now have access to the library (I'm running python 3.8.3, is this an issue? I tried it on a different machine with python 3.7 with no trouble).
pip install toqito still gives the error message from my first post. Again, this might just be a problem with my configuration, although if you try to install the package on Repl.it you get the same error.
One extra question: why is the init.py file empty now? I find that I have to import the attributes one by one. This is ok in principle but I'm used to getting access right away to some attributes
Hmm, strange. Glad you are able to run via setup.py, and thank you for letting me know about the pip install woes.
There will be another update to the PyPi server in the next day or so, and I'm hoping that this will solve the issue.
Regarding your question on the empty __init__.py file, you may have to be more specific as to which one you are referring to. Thanks for the comments and questions!
This thread may be of use in resolving the issue for you locally:
pyca/cryptography#5101
Hello,
This thread may be of use in resolving the issue for you locally:
Thank you, I see its mostly a local issue with pip  and python versions. Do you think, however, that toqito should be able to be loaded into tools like Repl.it and Colab?
be more specific as to which one you are referring to.
Yes, I am referring to
toqito/init.py
If I understood correctly, here one can add attributes that can be loaded as soon as the library is imported.
I think I have nothing further to add here, If I find something interesting to comment about installation, I'll open another issue. Thanks again for the help!
Great. I'll close this for now, but please let me know if you encounter any further issues. Thanks again for your help!
So sorry for this mess, I erroneously linked this issue (No 2) to my reviews I'm doing on the forked code I have of your repo
No worries at all, @rurz. Please reach out if you have any questions about using toqito! Cheers.
