It would be nice to have a handle to the loss function of VQC if one doesn't want to go via train to optimize the parameters. Reasons for that could be just for playing around, getting a better feeling of the loss landscape or running custom optimizers not adhering to the Optimizer interface. While technically possible right now, it's not very straightforward:
Instead it would be nice to do
Hi @Cryoris !
I'd like to work on this, if that's okay!
Apart from being able to get the loss function via vqc.loss (so that calling vqc.loss(params) would give us the value of the loss function evaluated at that point in the parameter space) is there anything else you think would be cool to add?
Great to hear! We're currently moving the algorithms to the Terra repository, see Qiskit/qiskit#5479, so for this modification we have to wait until that is merged and then to the PR there.
I think the loss is good for now 👍
Okay, sounds like a plan!
I'm assuming that this applies to all work on the algorithms section (we'll need to fork Terra and work on the issues there, once the merge is done)?
Exactly 👍
Hi @Cryoris ,
I noticed that while a bunch of algorithms were moved to Terra, the VQC (plus the QGAN and a couple others) were not - does that mean I can go ahead and make a PR for this issue in Aqua, or will they be moved in a bit as well?
Thanks!
You should make the PR to Terra, I'll transfer the issue there. But the code is still the same so if you started working on it already you should just be able to copy the code 🙂
I've made a PR that fixes the loss function handle - but a bunch of imports are broken (which I'm fixing right now). It would be great it you could let me know what you think the best way forward would be:
Please let me know what you think would work!
Additionally, I also thought of a couple of upgrades the VQC could use:
I've also made a PR that adds analytic gradients to the QGAN algorithm to the Aqua repo, as well as have some other work (no PR yet) that lets users change optimizers when calling QGAN.train() - would I need to make new PRs for those to the Terra repo?
Thank you!
@Cryoris @SashwatAnagolum VQC won't be moved to Terra, only the "core algorithms" will go there. VQC will stay in aqua for now.
This enhancement was addressed by the now merged #1495 so closing this.
