we can convert a circuit to a unitary, but not to truth table yet. This will be useful for checking classical circuits (oracles, arithmetic, etc.)
Hi! I'm new at this, but would like to try this one. Just not sure how to represent superpositions as a truth table, for example a 1qubit circuit with an H-gate on q0?
I think this should only work for classical circuits (circuits consisting of X and controlled versions of X like CX, CCX, etc.) Although other circuits may exist that have other gates and are yet classical, I think to start we can just raise an error if a truth table is requested for other circuits.
It will be nice to then have a truth table synthesis method as a follow-on. I think the oracle synthesis code can be used there.
For anyone interested, I can help with this just this short project.
After giving some thought on how to go about implementing this, I came up with the following points to be aware of
I know, this first concern might be quite confusing, so let me illustrate with an example. Take the following circuit
This circuit implements a reversible Boolean function rev(0, a, b, c) -> (f(a,b,c), a, b, c).  You can represent its functionality using four truth tables. (Or one four-output truth table.) But clearly there is something else there. You have a function f embedded into this reversible function, i.e., you took an (possibly) irreversible Boolean function and made it into a reversible one.
So are you interested in the truth table of rev or f?
Keep in mind that, despite what my simple example might indicate, if you are looking for f, things might be much more complicated.
I think it would be kind of interesting to find truth table for f, but I don't really know how to extract that from a given circuit. Here I just meant the simple case of given an n-qubit circuit, give me the 2**n-entry truth table.
I think classical circuits become so called Permutation matrices when represented in matrix form. This then means we check for only one 1 entry per column, and its location index is the circuit output.
I have tried this out with X, CX, CCX and a Deutsch-Joza oracle so far, please check it out here.
Maybe this is close to what we want?
Has this issue been solved?
