Building the 0.7.2 release using Fedora Rawhide, get the following error:
This appears to be related to https://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=105131 but I'm not sure how to resolve it.  The workaround is to disable -Werror=enum-int-mismatch which was introduced in gcc-13 apparently.
Thanks! I understand the workaround, but I'm afraid -Werror is not future-proof enough for production
-Werror is not future-proof enough for production
Agreed. Would your suggestion then to drop this option for Release builds and only do specific CI runs with it (along the lines of openssl's "--strict-warnings" option), @beldmit ? OK also for you @dstebila ?
@baentsch I support this idea
Well the proper solution is to fix the mismatch between enum and int.  It just looks a little awkward to get the desired enum back into the FrodoKEM kem.c file.  I don't have a gcc-13 installation readily at hand to test it.
Well the proper solution is to fix the mismatch between enum and int.
Agreed. This would solve this issue this time. Regarding gcc-13, I didn't even find a suitable release, just this basepoint ... @beldmit Is that what you're working with? Do you have a suggestion where else to get this from? Maybe a test docker image readily available?
But anyway, upon the next compiler option changes, -Werrorwill trip up building liboqs (and any dependent component, e.g., oqsprovider and its users, e.g, openssl) again, so I'll do a PR separating release and strict checks (and add CI for both), unless you'd find fault with this approach, @dstebila .
I use Fedora rawhide for this purpose, so probably there is a Docker image.
https://www.rpmfind.net/linux/rpm2html/search.php?query=gcc+13&submit=Search+... is a result of RPM search.
Thanks for the pointer, @beldmit!
@dstebila : Running docker run -it fedora:rawhide and (inside) yum install -y gcc quickly gives you a working gcc 13 dev environment.
I've done docker pull fedora:rawhide and then yum install cmake ninja-build gcc successfully, but then when I try building liboqs using mkdir build; cd build; cmake -GNinja .. (as per our normal build process), CMake fails with a segmentation fault.
CMake fails with a segmentation fault.
Not anymore after yum update -y. So here's the full setup:
Thanks Michael, that helped me get things running.  I've pushed #1377 which clears the compilation error with gcc-13 when I run locally.
Good to hear -- Thanks.
Would it be an idea/opportunity to add Fedora:latest/rawhide in this way to the .github CI (either the daily or the weekly one) as part of this PR -- kind of "canary test for the latest-and-greatest dev tools"? Or shall we do this separately? Does it make sense at all? @beldmit : Would such "bleeding edge" CI appear sensible -- or overly painful? I guess the question is: How stable is "rawhide"?
rawhide is more painful than stable, I think. I'd say use f38 (will be forked on Feb 7, if I'm not mistaken), it's much more stable.
Thanks for that advice. Will do a follow-up PR to #1377 adding f38 to liboqs CI as and when available.
