The binding of the angle parameter of the C3XGate doesn't work as expected.
If we parametrize the C3XGate with an angle parameter as in the signature in the doc C3XGate(angle=None), then during binding we get the error: CircuitError: 'Cannot bind parameters (a) not present in the circuit.'
Running the following circuit:
Then we bind the parameter a to 0.1. And run it.
Output:
The circuit should bind the parameter a as the angle parameter in the doc of the C3XGate.
It seems to be a problem during the initialization of the C3XGate, whenever it gets an angle parameter, it is not considered, but there is no trace of this behavior in the doc, that's why I created an ansazt with it. The code pointed below seems to confirm that the C3XGate can have an angle and it should become a C3SXGate with the corresponding angle, but the diagram of the resulting circuit is in contradiction, as the error further show.
https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/blob/ee0d76052411230848ab2830c5741c14c2450439/qiskit/circuit/library/standard_gates/x.py#L594
So maybe, we should either drop the angle parameter (from code and doc) and C3XGate becomes a non parametrizable gate, or we convert make sure its parameter angle is considered and we can parametrize it.
Looking forward to listen to your point of view, thanks in advance
C3XGate is already nonparameterisable; passing an angle causes a C3SXGate to be constructed instead, and it should raise a DeprecationWarning due to passing an angle to its constructor.  That said, now I think about it again, the deprecation warning is likely suppressed in normal use because it's a Terra function that calls another Terra function in a deprecated manner, so the warning may not have shown.
As it turns out, I apparently made a rough attempt to remove the angle keyword a few months ago (#7209 (comment)), but I don't remember why I didn't finish the job.  Probably the Terra 0.19 rush got in the way.  With the angle argument deprecated since 0.17, I think we're fine to fix this issue by removing it, and making the updates to C3SXGate.inverse that I mentioned in the linked comment.  Strictly we haven't warned quite correctly for the angle parameter of C3XGate, but that's just more of a bug that we can fix.
The angle argument was removed in #7011, so the code above complain that C3X does not take an angle parameter. I'll go ahead and close this issue since it's no longer reproducible, but feel free to reopen if this needs more discussion! 🙂
