I installed IQ# as described here, cloned this repository and tried to run the BasicGates Jupyter notebook. However, when trying to run any task I get the following error:
Some information:
Removing the %kata lines at the top of each block fixes this issue.
Odd, this looks like the notebook doesn't recognize the test which covers the task (that's what %kata defines). Could you try to execute %workspace reload (in a separate cell after the %package Microsoft.Quantum.Katas cell) and show us the results? This should give us some info about what went wrong.
@tcNickolas Hmm, that just gives an empty output:

Could you try to build the kata as a project from command line (go to BasicGates folder and do dotnet build)? If there are any errors building it, it would explain this behavior.
No errors:
Curiouser and curiouser.... We'll try to reproduce this on our side, but this will take us some time, sorry!
To get you unblocked in the meantime, do you want to try the online version of the Notebooks on Binder? The first four katas are available there, and I've checked that they work on Ubuntu.
As another option to unblock, there is a Dockerfile in the root folder, that should let you build a docker image with everything you need to run. Instructions on how to use it are in the README.md
I tried today to reproduce the problem, but no luck.
Created an Ubuntu 16.04 image:
Installed
And the BasicGates kata notebook is working as expected. I had to manually add ~/.dotnet/tools to the path, but other than that I did nothing special.
My recommendation again is going to be building a docker image from the Dockerfile. If you really want to figure out why it is not working, we can explain how to turn on debug logs and we'll take it from there.
@anpaz-msft thanks for checking. Docker image works, must be something on my system.
I finally got to installing IQ# on Ubuntu (though I have 18.04), and couldn't reproduce this issue either - didn't even have to modify any paths manually.
I'll close this issue, since we don't really have a path to further investigation. Sorry we couldn't figure it out, and I hope using Docker image works for you!
@tcNickolas
I had the exact same issue (but on windows) and running %workspace reload in a separate cell solved the issue.
I don't know if this issue is general or very specific. Maybe it is worth to comment in the intro of each kata.
This is weird... The katas that need %workspace reload (the ones that use custom simulator) have this cell right after the %package one, and the katas that don't have it shouldn't need it to run.
