As part of the creation of the core package and the data layer, I'm hitting basically every single part of QuTiP, so I'm flagging parts we might want to consider for removal.
eseries is completely eclipsed by QobjEvo, so I think we can definitely get rid of that.  essolve is rather specific and not very used, I suspect.  We could keep essolve without too much effort, but we should change the internals to use QobjEvo (though I also wouldn't be averse to removing it too).
@ajgpitch, @Ericgig, @nathanshammah.
I agree that on top level, these may seldom be used. It is not straightforwardly clear what is the added value of removing them, if no one is complaining or they are not hard to maintain. It may make things cleaner, but I am not aware of the implications. eseries seems used in the correlation module, possibly (marginally) also in expect.
If QobjEvo is a more modern way of applyingessolve, that is fine with me, it would be nice to restructure it that way. My advice before switching to QobjEvo, is that its use be first well documented in the documentation's Users guide, which could be done by copy-pasting chunks from the notebook.
eseries isn't really used by correlation, it's just a possible solver, and expect doesn't use it, it just currently has to support it.  Removing eseries would involve just removing that part of the solver.
essolve only functions with time-independent Hamiltonians anyway, and QobjEvo can represent a full superset of eseries operations, and is an awful lot faster at it too.  I agree that the documentation can definitely be improved - I'll be working on that later on in the project.
No-one's complaining about the difficult of maintaining them, because nobody is maintaining them.  eseries hasn't been meaningfully touched since 2014, and there's been an issue recently (#1262) where somebody pointed out that essolve doesn't do really simple parts of its spec.
Removed in dev.major already.  We'll issue deprecation warnings in an upcoming 4.x branch.
