Qiskit simulation never starts.
ProcessPoolExecutor threads run into deadlock.
Run large enough simulations For ex. 22-25 Qubits Quantum Volume circuit with depth of 5
Simulation to utilize all cores and run in parallel or run in a serial order at the least.
Suggestion 1)
In parallel.py file under qiskit.tools
In line 69:
elif sys.version_info[0] == 3 and sys.version_info[1] >= 8:
PARALLEL_DEFAULT = False
Suggestion 2)
Also update the necessity of python 3.8 or lower in AerSimulator description and aer_simulator.py
(For past 2 years I have been scolding qiskit implementation for running in serial without knowing that the python 3.9 is to be downgraded!)
Thanks and regards,
Mani
@maniraman-periyasamy
Thank you for your reporting and I'm sorry that my response is lazy.
Currently Qiskit does not disable parallel processing in Linux environment for any versions of Python, as you pointed in parallel.py.
I set up CentOS 7 environment and tested QV. In my environment, no deadlock was happened. The test code is here:
My environment:
Do you still encoruneter deadlock in your environment?
@hhorii
Sorry, I should have been more specific.
This happens only when there are multiple sockets (and nodes). Only when I run the code in cluster.
The program works perfect in the local machine with single socket and CPU.
can you tell more detail to reproduce your issue?
did you run python program via ssh or other remote shell?
did you run multiple python program in a single node?
There is no response since Mar. 30. Please post a new issue if this error still remains.
Just a note for others googling deadlock issue and found here,
I encountered deadlock using aer-gpu if I imported multiprocessing module even without using it.
The GPU can only run one instance and will become deadlocked for the second instance.
Simple not using multiprocessing, and not importing it will make the GPU (I'm using single gpu) work.
I'm using Python 3.8.12 and
qiskit                            0.39.3
qiskit-aer                        0.11.1
qiskit-aer-gpu                    0.11.2
qiskit-ibmq-provider              0.19.2
qiskit-ignis                      0.7.1
qiskit-terra                      0.22.3
I know they are a bit old at this time, but just here to remind others if you encounter the same, since I haven't tested any newer version
