Hi,
I am new to OQS Openssl but I did use Openssl (release ver. 1.1.1d) to generate out public and private keys with RSA and encrypt/decrypt file with AES-CBC. I tried to use quantum resistance key encapsulation mechanism through Kyber and signature schemes with Dilithium for my project.
I followed instruction to build openssl with libops and the build seemed OK (version 1.1.1d with many warning in libops library). I got "Algorithm kyber512 not found" error message when generated private key using "genpkey" command.  See attached screen capture.
Below is the steps I used on my computer, ubuntu 18.04.
Please assist.
Thanks,
Raymond

Post-quantum KEMs are only available within TLS 1.3, they are not available to use directly as a public key encryption mechanism in the command-line tools or API.  This is related to the long-standing open issue #59.
Hi Douglas,
I even tried simple commands from TLS demo section (Readme.md) but they did not even recognize Kyber512 algo.
Your response stated that kyber algo is not available through command-line tool such as openssl.  So, the above two command lines will NOT work.  Please confirm/clarify.
My objective is to demonstrate that I can generate out public and private keys from quantum resistance algorithm such as Kyber for my project.  This seems like not feasible through OQS using openssl.
Please response.
Thanks,
Raymond
You are confusing KEMs and signature schemes.  X509 certificates are about signature schemes.  Kyber is a KEM.
@RLuuPOC The Crystal Kyber proposal is used for both a KEM scheme and a signature scheme; take a look at the Crystal-Kyber in the arxiv as well as the NIST submission paper on Crystal-Kyber [ https://pq-crystals.org/ ]. The KEM is widely refered to as "kyber" although the dilithium set of signatures are also based on the Crystal-Kyber Mathematical construction as well; it is just not obvious from the name.
As for the instructions, they do work. I have tested them, for the Crystal-Kyber based signature scheme just give it the right name and it will generate them:
@RLuuPOC @ReverseControl This defines KEM+SIGs for OQS-openssl. "Crystals" is the "family name" for
Kyber, an IND-CCA2-secure key-encapsulation mechanism (KEM); and Dilithium, a strongly EUF-CMA-secure digital signature algorithm
Hi,
For Kyber (used for KEM), I tried to use "openssl genpkey" command to generate the private/public key but got an error message, "Algorithm kyber512 not found".
./apps/openssl genpkey -algorithm kyber512 -out kyber512_srv.key
Is this correct syntax to generate out private key?
Thanks,
Raymond
