ARTIQ 1.0 on Windows
Upper and lower scan bounds handles have colored markers. The markers are too small to see.
only happens on some UMD PCs. On such PCs, the font size of the scan boundary spinboxes is also smaller than that of the point count spinboxes.
Those sizes are derived the same way as e.g. the default window sizes. Are those also too small?
Is this some "theme" issue (the scientific spinbox etc not seeing the same themed font)?
It seems like the actual size of the handle is correct, but their bottom part is cut because the widget is not large enough.
Got a screenshot?
Could be related to hi-DPI (that's on a Windows Surface).

@jboulder  can you still reproduce this? The scientific spinboxes were dropped after 1.0 and look very different than the other spinboxes in the screenshot. Do you have access to artiq on a windows surface? OK to defer this issue till after 2.0 or is it actively hurting somebody right now?
I don't currently have access to a high-dpi display like a Microsoft
surface.
On Thu, Aug 4, 2016 at 5:51 AM Robert Jördens notifications@github.com
wrote:
@jboulder https://github.com/jboulder can you still reproduce this? The
scientific spinboxes were dropped after 1.0 and look very different than
the other spinboxes in the screenshot. Do you have access to artiq on a
windows surface? OK to defer this issue till after 2.0 or is it actively
hurting somebody right now?
—
You are receiving this because you are subscribed to this thread.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#463 (comment), or mute
the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/ATl51jhA-rNJ9Oi59d06TvEGisGlKvTvks5qcbYqgaJpZM4Itxyi
.
timed out
Thanks for the reminder. I now have access to a Windows 10 machine with a high-resolution display (2560x1140). The scan widget and spin boxes are sized correctly and handles are easy to operate.

In a multi-display setup I can also have the ARTIQ Dashboard lying half on a high-resolution display and half on a low-resolution display and everthing is rendered correctly. Nice.
