The parameter class at this point, uses Numbers() as its default validator.
I think it would be better, as a default, to use Anything()
What do you all think?
I think that the standard parameter class should be as general as possible, and therefore not include any assumptions on the input data, I think having Anything() as default validator makes sense.
I'm not sure. Currently our data storage assumes all set and measured parameters will be numbers, and I think it will break if non-numeric data comes in, so I would kind of like it if you have to actively declare non-numeric valid inputs.
Group decission pending.
Arguments for vals.Nothing() as default validator
Not vals.Anything () ?
On 15 Jul 2016 11:01, "Adriaan" notifications@github.com wrote:
Group decission pending.
Arguments for vals.Nothing() as default validator
—
You are receiving this because you authored the thread.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
qdev-dk-archive#64 (comment), or mute
the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AJvAQonywyrwlYr6Zc6-sZrsQFCL1em1ks5qV6CxgaJpZM4H6GWu
.
I don't like Anything() being the default because it encourages people to not validate input at all. If you want to explicitly say that, then fine. Also right now DataSet only accepts numbers (for now), so I want it to be explicit if you make a parameter that's not compatible with DataSet.
I see your point, but I think I do not agree.
(Well vals.Nothing is better than vals.Anything)
I ended up worth a lot of parameters that take string Values. You can not
sweep them, but they are logged just fine.
The reason I promote .Anything is that the default domain of a mathematical
function is always the largest thing that makes sense.  Also in computer
programming I learned that validations must be chosen such that they are
never too restrictive.
I see that there are distances between this and qcodes, but this is my 2
cents anyway.
But as said, I like "Nothing" more than "Numbers"
On 15 Jul 2016 11:56, "alexcjohnson" notifications@github.com wrote:
I don't like Anything() being the default because it encourages people to
not validate input at all. If you want to explicitly say that, then fine.
Also right now DataSet only accepts numbers (for now), so I want it to be
explicit if you make a parameter that's not compatible with DataSet.
—
You are receiving this because you authored the thread.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
qdev-dk-archive#64 (comment), or mute
the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AJvAQsYsUBLZ04xJbbXMDDDwdk1v0Ra5ks5qV63FgaJpZM4H6GWu
.
I think Number() is the sanest because the default is not the most general case but rather the most idiot proof //simple  case.
