macOS 10.15.6, Xcode11.7.
Please check if you did not change anything or set CFLAGS in your environment; the Keccak4x code is not compatible with -Wconversion.
...check if you did not change anything or set CFLAGS in your environment...
I do have CFLAGS set, among other things to ensure that the compiler can locate system header files, which on the current macOS (unfortunately!) aren't in /usr/include any more:
I did not change anything in the PQClean files - this is a fresh clone. The warning flags are not mine.
It seems make on MacOS is propagating flags in a different way than is happening on Linux with GNU Make. We can probably just remove CFLAGS from common/keccak4x/Makefile.
Could you please test #322; our CI system does not have access to MacOS runners with AVX2 support (neither Travis, Appveyor, Azure or Github offer this).
I have GNU make as well. Maybe it would be better to allow user to define which make to employ via, e.g., env var MAKE?
We already try to make sure that BSD Make is supported (no wildcards), so it should work with BSD make (as I assume MacOS is shipping).
We already try to make sure that BSD Make is supported (no wildcards), so it should work with BSD make (as I assume MacOS is shipping).
Yes, that's my understanding too. But, as I said, I also have GNU make installed (and the whole set of GNU utilities, like GNU cp, etc. - in case it's needed).
Unsetting the CFLAGS got all the tests to pass... Funny.  ???
One concern - with no flags passed to Keccak - would it compile unoptimized code?
Set CFLAGS again, tried your 'no-flags-for-keccak4x' branch:
I set -O3 -mavx2 directly in the Makefile.
You can by the way just test one of the schemes:
Thanks! I didn't realize that. But at this time, the "full" python3 test_testvectors.py is in progress, and probably half-way done. Will report complete results soon (hopefully ;).
@thomwiggers as you can see above - your no-flags-for-keccak4x branch passed with the flying colors. Copying/duplicating here:
@thomwiggers may I ask when you plan to merge no-flags-for-keccak4x to master?
