Running 38b5128 built with JESD204B=0.6 with SAWG and HMC830. Running SAWG sines.py example. It runs for several minutes then panics. I've seen this twice. Usually don't see the panic. For some reason hmc7043 hand consistently happens after post-panic restart.
When that happens, can you post the exact runtime.elf file that was flashed into the board, and the corresponding exact error message?
@whitequark Can we get memory dumps around the illegal instruction PC?
@whitequark do you need anything that's not here? One of those pastes is the complete UART output for an illegal instruction error, and I dumped the entire build as well.
Just saw this again. Was running sines.py on 38b5128 with SAWG, JESD204b=0.6 and HMC830.
runtime.elf.zip
Not sure why upon restart it hangs waiting for RTM FPGA. AFAIR that chip's .bit doesn't get erased upon restart.
Just happened again. Was running sines.py and seeing sinusoidal output on scope. After about 2 minutes see panic and output on scope is garbage. Same .elf.
hmmm...that's after the HMC7043/HMC830 are correctly configured, so it's unlikely that this is due to those chips.
@gkasprow can we add a PLL locked LED to the FP of Sayma for the next revision?
After about 2 minutes see panic and output on scope is garbage.
Please disable restart-on-panic so that we know if the garbage signal is due to the crash or the restart.
@whitequark Can we get memory dumps around the illegal instruction PC?
I'll add this.
And again... I continue posting as the hex codes are changing.
Roger, I'll disable restart-on-panic.
Same runtime.elf for all those dumps?
Same runtime.elf.
Done. On test crash:
@whitequark thanks for adding that. Do you want me to post a new UART trace with the memory dump?
Yes, we need the memory dump, the rest of the crash message, and the corresponding runtime.elf.
Using latest from master 20180604 with SAWG vivado 2018.1 07d4145. Meets timing. I've run 25 scripts involving SAWG via Ethernet. No panics.
So you fixed Ethernet?
Yes. sinara-hw/sinara#553 (comment)
I think we can close this now.
Sounds good. I've not seen it repeat.
