When a feedback loop involves more than 1 output, we don't have yet the possibility to properly measure the full loop transfer function: the following sketch tries to explain the situation:

Right now, the open-loop transfer function correction is obtained by measuring Saa or Sbb, and calculating Saa/1+Saa. This assumes the extra output has a negligible influence on the loop.
What would be ideal would be to measure the full loop transfer function Z = Z1 + Z2 by applying a modulation in c, and measuring its effect in c as well (before or after the addition with the excitation).
This would give the full loop open or closed transfer function, by applying the right correction:
Z = 1/1+Scc or Z = Scc/1 + Scc, depending on where the signal is measured.
Then, to properly measure individual output transfer functions, one would need to measure Saa or Sbb and normalize it with 1/1 + Z.
Unfortunately, I don't see a way to do it right now since we don't have an adder module. In other terms, the only place where we can connect the na excitation as a perturbation to the closed loop is by using the output_direct's adder.
Still, one drawback that I see with what I am proposing here is that normalization and individual output measurement needs to be done sequentially, which is not so great (do we want to take one point of normalization then one point of transfer function and so on... Then what about the na filter which takes time to settle between subsequent measurements). Right now, I can't think of a scheme that would allow to read out simultaneously the full loop transfer function for normalization, and to isolate individual output transfer-functions with only one excitation point.
It's maybe a good idea to think about the best solution to that problem before upgrading the hardware.
Ok, I was skeptical, but in the end I redid the calculation carefully (see scan below):

It looks like it is enough to know the digital transfer function for the current channel and measure the response to the drive in only one point of the circuit. This seems a little bit miraculous to me, but if this is true that makes our life much easier than I thought (close loop normalization can still be done with only a single measurement).
PS: no problem, expected transfer-functions still exist, I have almost not touched that part of the code.
PS2: Merry Christmas by the way!
so indeed, any transfer function can be extracted by properly doing the measurement and post-treatment. no issue here.
