I have tried the VarQITE module of Qiskit as mentioned in #1391, and when I tried to implement an Ising Hamiltonian based on Quadratic Program, and I got an unsupported type of parameter values, the error is mentioned in this comment
#1454 (comment)
Here, I want to update my status, the module has run for more than 24000 minutes, like this picture:

It didn't stop and my computer has not turned off for more than 2 weeks. Is there a problem? If there is a problem, how do I solve it?
It seems in your algorithm there is an infinite loop. Following are the places where you can find it:
It seems in your algorithm there is an infinite loop. Following are the places where you can find it:
I run my 4-vertex example by copying the whole notebook code on Google colab, adding
print(len(parameters))
after the original code, and run it in the same time, it currently ran for 4 hours, and the length did not have an output.
It seems in your algorithm there is an infinite loop. Following are the places where you can find it:
I run my 4-vertex example by copying the whole notebook code on Google colab, adding print(len(parameters)) after the original code, and run it in the same time, it currently ran for 4 hours, and the length did not have an output.
After 12 hours, my notebook on Google Colab stopped running after the kernel stopped automatically, the picture is here:

The length of parameters is still not given.
Hey! @OuCheng-Fu i can understand how it feels to wait hrs to get results. For debugging purposes please share  your code or colab notebook so that i can better understand problem . I really suggest to not use git /github  platform for code discussions use slack or stack overflow for that.
Hey! @OuCheng-Fu i can understand how it feels to wait hrs to get results. For debugging purposes please share your code or colab notebook so that i can better understand problem . I really suggest to not use git /github platform for code discussions use slack or stack overflow for that.
The python code on colab notebook is here:
https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1J_iw_vTHkDXpNyX5GwN9HOuTXbeBsNsN?usp=sharing
it is also on slack:
https://qiskit.slack.com/archives/CB6C24TPB/p1689016161818919?thread_ts=1688397470.409429&cid=CB6C24TPB
Thank you for reply.
