Under QUnit, we have limited decomposition capability for QStabilizerHybrid. If the "tableau" has zeroes on its cross terms outside of the sub-unit to decompose, we can decompose it from its bulk. Also, if we know that an entire stabilizer sub-unit is entirely in a set of X, Y, and Z basis eigenstates only, we know how to correctly separate it to single bit sub-units. However, if any single qubit is in an X, Y, or Z eigenstate, it seems like it should always be possible to put it in the former form, with zeroes only on its cross terms. Forgive me, but my Clifford group math isn't yet perfectly fluent enough to accomplish this last part, which could give a large, fundamental improvement in overall performance. We need to figure out transformation rules to allow this more general decomposition.
It's hard to find "good first issues" to label at this stage, and this is particularly math-y, to the point that it's personally over my head at the moment, but I'm labeling it as a "good first issue" in case someone who makes a specific study of Clifford set algebra might come along and know or easily figure how to algorithmically ensure zeroes on the tableau form cross terms of X, Y, and Z eigenstates, or something even more general.
This also might be top priority, momentarily, and maybe I could hack it, if I think about it for a week or two, (similar to how our Schmidt decomposition methods came about generally in the first place).
Aaronson's gaussian() method from CHP looks like it might simply fill this need, if Gaussian elimination to achieve "quasi-upper-triangular form" implies diagonalized rows in the case of intrinsically separable subsystems. I should be able to decide this theoretically, but it's somewhat new to me. It's a minimal diff, and the bottom line kind of is whether it improves the benchmark results, though.
Giving myself a quick Wikipedia refresher, transforming to reduced row echelon form probably couldn't hurt this cause, and it's apparently a unique form. If the benchmarks are basically a wash, I might accept putting this in the preamble of decomposition check methods, on principle, or when I actually fully understand the principle.
Seeing as Aaronson's Gaussian elimination operation converts to "quasi-upper triangular form," or presumably "reduced row echelon form," and this removes all below-diagonal cross terms, and it is further a unique form, those might be sufficient assumptions to argue that simultaneous "upper triangular" cross terms are also as maximally reduced as possible, by this operation, which should maximize explicit separability of the stabilizer tableau representation. The logical alternative seems to be that the unique reduced row echelon form has additional simultaneously reducible degrees of overall freedom, which is probably a direct self-contradiction. Regrettably short of personally being able to present an exact formal proof, with the linked change from yesterday, I think I leave it to more rigorous minds to formally prove the obvious, and I consider this issue closed, for now.
