When I launch the artiq_browser and open a HDF5 file generated as the result of an experiment run on ARTIQ, the application crashes.
I expected to see a plot of the HDF5 file contents rendered by the GUI.
Error message:
Without remembering whether that change occurred in h5py or HDF5.jl, didn't the interface change to [()] instead of .value? Should be a simple patch.
@dnadlinger, it's a Python Dataset object created using the h5py  library.
Sure; I reworded the message to clarify – I was referring to this, but wasn't 100% sure whether this was indeed in h5py or a similar library. artiq_browser needs a fix to use the new API.
A regression test for this would be good, we can just import the relevant functions from the browser and run them without involving the GUI.
artiq_browser needs a fix to use the new API.
And we should probably detect which API to use and make artiq_browser compatible with both. Especially because most people use the trashy conda software installer and its ridiculously buggy dependency handler, and sometimes overwrite parts of the packages with pip and other messy installers - the combination of which makes is difficult to control which h5py version gets imported.
h5py 2.0 (with the working [()] syntax) was released in 2014, though; surely, that would be okay to assume by now? .value has been deprecated for a long time, and only now actually removed.
I don't see h5py < 2.0 available in popular conda channels, so yes it should be ok...
@aaditkamat: Do you want to submit a PR? Should be a simple matter of find/replace.
@aaditkamat: Do you want to submit a PR? Should be a simple matter of find/replace.
@dnadlinger, I have done a replacement in the files.py as suggested but I'm not sure about which tests I need to update.
See artiq/test.
This code isn't covered by tests atm (which is why this wasn't flagged by CI); I was suggesting adding a new test.
See artiq/test.
This code isn't covered by tests atm (which is why this wasn't flagged by CI); I was suggesting adding a new test.
You mentioned a regression test invoking the relevant functions from the browser but how about adding a test case under test_h5types.py
That would be fine, rename test_h5types to test_hdf5 since it would be testing more than data types then.
