I'm not sure if this is by-design, but while building the Katas docker image, it produces a couple warnings and several failures in the NbConvertApp markdown conversion.
Although they seem harmless and don't impede the generation of the docker image, it gives the impression that something went wrong in the process.
Steps to repro:
Warning example:
Potential solutions to these warnings:
A) Use the -H flag in sudo.
B) Install pytest in the user's folder without sudo (pip install --user pytest).
Failure example:
Potential solutions to the failures:
A) Leave it be, assuming this is by-design and the user is responsible to take care of the errors as part of the Kata exercise.
B) Make all code snippets compilable by commenting placeholders and returning dummy results.
For the pip install warning, I agree that it would be nice to get rid of this warning.
The NbConvert failures are benign - a lot of the katas and especially the tutorials have intentionally invalid Q# code, designed for the user to fix / fill the gaps, so executing them as is will produce an error, but an expected one. I actually like this feature of the Notebooks, compared to the katas-as-Q#--projects which must have valid Q# code in all tasks to allow the project to compile - it allows us to not come up with confusing placeholder values (tasks that return an operation are particularly bad at this).
Thank you for your vigilance!
I saw that you changed
RUN pip install "matplotlib" 
RUN pip install "pytest"
to:
RUN sudo -H pip install "matplotlib" 
RUN sudo -H pip install "pytest"
But it is suppose to be like this:
RUN sudo pip install "matplotlib"
 RUN sudo pip install "pytest"
Have you tried that?
Or adding user root to sudo:
sudo adduser <username> sudo
https://askubuntu.com/questions/7477/how-can-i-add-a-new-user-as-sudoer-using-the-command-line
We're planning to switch to building the Docker image ourselves and publishing it for consumption, so we will polish our Docker build, but not in the context of eliminating that specific warning. I'll close this issue, since it will be part of a larger effort.
