Add ctrl_state to multi-control multi-target gates
I think this would be a nice feature to add. Willing to help implement it if looking for help.
This is awesome, for any help, I'm here too!
Hi! I am interested in working on this issue. Can this be assigned to me? .I would like to make my first contribution to qiskit terra.
Yeah man, if @diemilio and @Marsmmz also agree, you can do this! And if during your task you find some issues, please tell us and we may help you😁
Sure! I had volunteered to take care of this a little while back cause I had the time, but I never got it assigned.
@diemilio Thanks for the opportunity. I have started working on the issue following the contribution guide.
Sorry for getting here late, I'll try my best to help!
@Marsmmz I have a question. Does MCMT controls need to be custom state?. Meaning should user given freedom to specify whether the state of control is 0 or 1 or mix like '01...' control state targeting q_k number of qubits. If yes what's best way to take that input from user, dictionary or list??
@Marsmmz I have a question. Does MCMT controls need to be custom state?. Meaning should user given freedom to specify whether the state of control is 0 or 1 or mix like '01...' control state targeting q_k number of qubits. If yes what's best way to take that input from user, dictionary or list??
I personally think users should have the freedom to specify the control state. Like if a 2-C-2-T gate is needed, users can specify which of '00', '01', '10', '11' they want to be the control state.  Perhaps taking a 01 binary string as input is enough? What do you think?@ShashiQubit @diemilio @Dpbm
@Marsmmz @diemilio @Dpbm I want feed back on this modified implementation of control function from source code of MCMT gate:
In this version, if the ctrl_state is '0', X gates are applied to all the control qubits both before and after the MCMT gate, so we have a "0-controlled" MCMT. If ctrl_state is '1', the MCMT gate is implemented directly without any extra X gates, meaning it's a regular "1-controlled" MCMT. If ctrl_state is a string containing '0's and '1's, X gates are applied before and after the MCMT gate to the qubits corresponding to '0's in ctrl_state.
Also what additional test cases are needed apart from the default ones already present for MCMT ? One that I could think is to check length of ctrl_state string matches the length of control qubits if ctrl_state is not None.
