For diagrams we should keep style consistent.  I'm putting drawings
https://drive.google.com/corp/drive/folders/1VorjayQk8n25iJ3JM45rk9WEWjdIP578
Another thing is that many classes (and important methods) don't have any doc strings.
#99
#126 #116 #121
Still need to do:
Extensions,
Schedules and Devices
Tutorial
un assigning myself as I'll be out next week
Is this still work in progress? I didn't see any automatic doc generation? We use sphinx in OpenFermion and it seems to work rather well but maybe you have something else in mind.
We can't hook up the external doc readers until the repo is public.  So this is just temp .md files for now.  The bug here is to finish off the documentation for the core code (extensions is not documented)
@babbush I actually think the code documentation from sphinx is kinda...not good.  Why doesn't it link back to the class where the code is defined?  I also think, so far, that it is kind of a disaster for the more structured documentation that we are writing (which I see you don't have in OpenFermion?)  I worry that it's horrible syntax is an impediment to writing documentation, and until we have a technical writer who is taking care of this the load on developers who are writing the code is too high.
Current plan: @babbush @kevinsung @Strilanc @tswast
Why doesn't it link back to the class where the code is defined?
It does if you convert to RST as I did in #453
To add to the burndown list, I don't see an issue for restructuring the docstrings so they render properly. You'll probably want to use https://sphinxcontrib-napoleon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ and Google-style docstrings, but even with these I still see a ton of warnings when I build the docs.
Also Tim points out I may be able to use a business plan readthedocs.  That could help.  Will investigate today.
The business plan readthedocs gives too many permissions for me to be comfortable using it from a security standpoint.
I don't think this is specific enough to keep open. We added various bits of documentation (the tutorial, install instructions, dev setup instructions...)
If anyone has specific docs they think are needed, add them as separate issues.
