Hello,
i would like to integrate mitiq into the QAOA-Class from Qiskit.
My idea was to change the lines in the VQE-Class as follows:
When i run the code with:
Unfortunately i get this error:
Does anyone have a suggestion on how to fix this or have another suggestion on how to integrate mitiq?
Thanks a lot for your help!
EDIT:
Here ist the code: Colab
Hello @lasys, thank you for your interest in Mitiq!
If this is a bug report, please provide screenshots and/or minimum viable code to reproduce your issue, so we can do our best to help get it fixed. If you have any questions in the meantime, you can also ask us on the Unitary Fund Discord.
Hello @lasys,
The error is related to a conversion problem from Qiskit to Cirq (which is the internal representation used by Mitiq). Probably the problem is due to parameterized (symbolic) gates.
However I think the main problem is another one. The object that you define as noisy_executor must be a function which input a circuit and returns an expectation value in order to be compatible with Mitiq. In your case instead it is indirectly defined by using energy_evaluation which is a function from the set of variational parameters to an expectation value (the input circuit is not an argument). I think this is the main problem. I am not sure what could be a simple solution, but I would probably try to add Mitiq somewhere in  self.get_energy_evaluation() instead of changing self.compute_minimum_eigenvalue().
Good luck!
The only relevant portion from the colab is below.
Problems:
There's a line in energy_evaluation which says:
To use Mitiq in this example, you probably need to apply mitigate_executor to something in self._circuit_sampler.
My main takeaway from this is we should print out the circuit in CircuitConversionErrors.
Totally missed @andreamari's comment somehow 🙃 at least we had more-or-less the same conclusions.
This issue had no activity for 2 months, and will be closed in one week unless there is new activity. Cheers!
Sorry for the late reply.
I have found a solution and implemented it as follows.
I also added Clifford Data Regression in the same function energy_evaluation in another project.
If you have nothing to add, the issue can be closed.
Thank you very much for your help and work!
Thanks @lasys. I think there could be value in adding a "Mitiq with variational ansatze in Qiskit" example to the documentation. If you'd be interested in writing this using your example as a foundation, please let me know! I'll close this issue and open a new issue for the documentation.
