Describe the bug
Currently the build provides liboqs.so.0.8.0 and liboqs.so.3 linking to it.
Better would be liboqs.so.3.8.0 and liboqs.so.3  to share a common prefix.
To Reproduce
See above, liboqs.so.0.8.0 vs liboqs.so.3
Expected behavior
common suffix
Screenshots
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.
Environment (please complete the following information):
OS: openSUSE Factory
OpenSSL version 3.1.0
Compiler version used gcc13
Build variables used
cmake -S . -B build -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS:BOOL=ON -DOQS_DIST_BUILD:BOOL=ON
liboqs version 0.8.0
Additional context
Add any other context about the problem here.
Admittedly this is not totally intuitive. Rationale (my take): We are not confident (or courageous :) enough to move the library version beyond 1.0. We do have a rationale for changing version minor (when breaking KAT changes occur) and it may be reasonable to also change version major when breaking API changes occur. The latter happens much more rarely, thus supporting the case to move beyond 1.0. Also, our release cycle isn't exactly ultra-fast, so a new major version once a year doesn't sound terrible to consumers of the lib.
The upcoming API changes (XMSS, encryption APIs, ...) should be "add-only", not necessarily requiring a new version major -- or maybe it does?
Input from "consuming" distribution integrators/maintainers would be very welcome. @vt-alt @beldmit @yurivict : Opinions?
but then perhaps it should not be liboqs.so.3, but still liboqs.so.0.
but then perhaps it should not be liboqs.so.3, but still liboqs.so.0.
That then begs the question how to deal with #1081
I think current naming is OK.
SONAME is liboqs.so.3 because ABI was changed several times. Glibc had for years libc.so.6 -> libc-$GLIBC_VERSION.so.
Which is changed just recently to remove symlink.
Currently the build provides liboqs.so.0.8.0 and liboqs.so.3 linking to it.
Better would be liboqs.so.3.8.0 and liboqs.so.3 to share a common prefix.
I'm sorry for writing obvious things here, but soname is not a kind of project version, it's an ABI identifier,
so it's perfectly fine for the project version to be 0.8.0 and for the soname to be liboqs.so.3.
Anyway, please change soname if and only if the underlying ABI has changed.
I was only wondering why there was liboqs.so.3 being a symlink to liboqs.so.0.8.0. ... if this is accepted practice I am fine.
if this is accepted practice I am fine
I think it is. OK to close the issue then?
yes
