The current QuTiP admin team (@quantshah, @BoxiLi, @ajgpitch, @Ericgig, @nwlambert, and @nathanshammah) has been working on a governance model and document in the past few months. We'd like to propose this to the broader QuTiP community of contributors and users. The main takeaway is that QuTiP has grown enormously in use in the past few years, thanks to the work of its creators, @jrjohansson and @nonhermitian, and a devoted group of core developers (among whose: @arnelg, @cgranade and many others), as well as now, over 80 contributors to the main qutip/qutip repository, as well as all the help on qutip-notebooks, qutip-doc, and qutip.github.io as well as the other packages that are now being spin out in the QuTiP Github organization to avoid feature creeps. Not to mention all the help provided in Qutip's google group, a forum for bugs, physics questions and research ideas. Over the years, the QuTiP project has enabled a large ecosystem of supported libraries, such as Krotov (cc @goerz and others), pyEPR (cc @zlatko-minev), scqubits (cc @jkochNU), and many others.
With this governance model, we'd like to keep doing what we're doing, with the support, since 2018, of @numfocus, which supports scientific open source projects, and, from now on, the additional support of @unitaryfund, a non-profit that supports open-source projects in quantum technologies.
Below we reproduce a governance document that we will add to a new repository at github.com/qutip/governance. We are looking forward to help the growth of the user community, engage it with code contributions and bug reports, and make this awesome scientific open-source project even more sustainable. We will update all related information at github.com/qutip/governance, on QuTiP website's news section (http://qutip.org/news.html) and on the QuTiP google group (https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/qutip).
Below it is reported how we got there and the text we're adding to the governance. Before making any more official announcements, we thought it nice to ping the community watching this repository.
Timeline regarding governance talks:
The Project
QuTiP, the Quantum Toolbox in Python, is an open-source software to study and simulate quantum systems. It provides functionalities to define and simulate the dynamics of quantum systems and thus provides tools to develop an intuitive understanding of quantum mechanics. Apart from the educational aspect where QuTiP can be used to visualize and simulate simple quantum systems, there exists advanced functionalities that enable state-of-the-art research in open quantum systems using QuTiP. It provides the most comprehensive toolbox to characterize noise and dissipation affecting quantum systems as well as quantum information processing features.
QuTiP has been developed and maintained by a group of open-source contributors for several years and has been used for research, teaching and in the emerging quantum technology industry. The QuTiP community has grown immensely with several projects that build on top of it.
In this document we refer to the “QuTiP project” or “ the project” with reference to all software developed under the QuTiP Github organization, hosted at “www.github.com/qutip” and all related activities involving its community happening through its official channels.
The Community
QuTiP is at the center of a lively ecosystem and creative community. As of October 2020, QuTiP’s large community comprises over 80 code contributors and thousands of users that have downloaded the software over 300’000 times. QuTiP enables an infrastructure of other scientific libraries for the investigation of specific quantum physics or quantum information processing features.
There are several ways through which members of the wider QuTiP community can receive information on QuTiP. This is through any of its official channels: the Google forum; the qutip.org/news webpage tracking the releases on Github, and opening Issues on Github to file bug reports or discuss and proposed enhancements. Users are encouraged to contribute bug fixes or enhancements to the project with Pull Requests.
Governance
This governance document outlines the governance of the QuTiP project, in order to better serve the community and provide robust liveliness and sustained maintenance for the project. Changes to this document need to be approved by ¾ of the Admin Team. The contents of this QuTiP Governance are shown on QuTiP’s website (qutip.org/goverance) and in its documentation. The changes are tracked at github.com/qutip/governance.
We view this governance model as the formalization of what we are already doing, rather than a change in direction.
This document is composed of information regarding the following:
1. Code of Conduct
2. Admin Team: Tasks, Composition, Decisions, Communications.
3. Board: Tasks, Composition, Decisions, Communications.
4. Non-profit Support.
The Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct applies to all of QuTiP activities. QuTiP project members and contributors agree to abide by it and to build an inclusive community where criticism is provided and taken constructively and with empathy. Admin team members are responsible to enforce the Code of Conduct. Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported by contacting the project team at qutip-admin@googlegroups.com [activate this or alternate email].
The Admin Team leads technical code development and manages directly QuTiP-related activities. It’s thanks to their work and the broader community that the QuTiP project keeps lively, the software is maintained and the features keep expanding and improving.
Tasks
The admin team is listed on the qutip website and specific areas of competence are shown. Members of the admin team pledge to volunteer to:
**- Make decisions about specific technical issues, features, bugs and pull requests. They are the primary mechanism of guiding the code review process and merging pull requests. This includes closing pull requests or issues that are inactive for long or deemed not relevant. **
Develop new features in qutip/qutip and qutip/other-libraries.
Help keep a steady pace of qutip library releases (e.g., ~2 minor releases/year).
Actively participate / respond to the qutip-dev internal forum.
Help in the Q&A support group, qutip public forum.
Volunteer time for remote mentorship.
Discuss code developments.
Once a year, on a rotation basis, one admin team member is responsible for drafting a report for the QuTiP board.
For each subproject that is not qutip/qutip, at least one admin should actively be watching the repository.
If there are new projects that wish to come under the umbrella of qutip/, either one of the existing admins should get involved with the project, or the maintainer/developer of the new project joins the admin team upon a consensus reached by the existing admins.
Composition
Admin Team members are Team members with Owner rights in QuTiP’s main Github Repository (qutip/qutip) that have been active in the past one year.
Additional Admin Team members can be nominated by the admin team among core developers and major contributors, and are voted by the admin team with a majority vote. Prospective Admin Team members can send self-candidatures with their proposed candidature, and two brief statements: one explaining their past involvement with the QuTiP project, and one with their commitment to the QuTiP for the future, e.g., how they would help and support the project in their activity. Emeriti Admin Team members, including previous core contributors, are listed on the QuTiP website (at qutip.org/devs), governance (github.com/qutip/governance) and documentation.
Decisions
Each admin team member has a vote in decisions. As much as possible, admins try to take in feedback on changes from the wider community and timely communicate major changes in the software.
Communications
The admin team agrees to keep in touch regularly, through the qutip-admin channel or chosed communication medium, through the repositories’ maintenance, and with regular virtual or in-person meetings. The admin team drafts a report, [once] a year and submits it to the Board to inform it of developments on the project.
Members of the Board make sure that the Admin Team and project is well supported financially and logistically. Thanks to them helping enable the financial and logistics support, through scientific advisory and by keeping an eye on the project, they make the life of the admin team easier.
Tasks
Board members are volunteers that pledge to:
Composition
Initial board members are invited by the admin team, based on their track-record in supporting the project and future helping it grow. The admins elect new board members, in agreement with existing board members or upon the suggestion of the current board.
Additional prospective board members should send an email with their proposed candidature and two brief statements: one explaining their past involvement with the QuTiP project and one with their commitment to the QuTiP for the future, e.g., how they would help and support the project in their activity. The minimum number of board members is [three] and maximum is [seven]. Board seats are held [indefinitely]. The board can decide, by majority vote, to remove a board member for good reasons, e.g., if they are not engaged with the project, do not reply to communications or attend board meetings.
Decisions
Each board member has a vote in decisions, which are taken by a majority vote.
Communications
The board agrees to meet [once a year] (also via online meeting). The board is informed at least [once a year] by the Admin Team on QuTiP development and other activities (via email in the qutip-board channel).
Since 2018, QuTiP is an affiliated project of NumFOCUS, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization registered in the USA. The mission of NumFOCUS is to promote open practices in research, data, and scientific computing Unitary Fund pledges to support the QuTiP project as a fiscally sponsored project. QuTiP remains an affiliated project of NumFOCUS. Unitary Fund is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization registered in the USA working to create a quantum technology ecosystem that benefits the most people. Due to its role in the quantum software community, Unitary Fund pledges to:
The qutip/governance repository has been live for a few months now, and is the living version of this document, so further comments and issues should now be directed there.
