Hello,
As part of a university project (UPJV, France), our cryptography professor and I are trying to compile the code you are making available.
However, we're encountering a lot of errors during compilation. For no apparent reason, even though we've followed the documentation perfectly.
We've tried this on Ubuntu 18, 20 and 22 (from scratch) with OpenSSL 1.1.1t.
Here are the commands typed:
And the errors obtained (short version):
Do you have any idea what could cause this?
Thanks
Full output: https://www.transfernow.net/dl/20230525USK7wC1Y
On Manjaro wit OpenSSL 3.0.8 (so I use -DOQS_USE_OPENSSL=OFF), it seems to work
This was not the case a few days ago when I tried it.
I'll leave the issue open in case my logs help you or if you can explain why it didn't work under Ubuntu.
Just a guess: I'm not mistaken (? please check?), Ubuntu22 also already uses OpenSSL3 and not the outdated 111, so you may need to build liboqs without OpenSSL support there too in order to have the old oqs-openssl111 run OK there too. I wonder though, why you are not using oqsprovider with operating systems already at OpenSSL3. Everyone (incl. us) is moving away from OpenSSL111... See for example the links in #434
Thank you for your feedback.
In the examples I used OpenSSL 111 on Ubuntu 20.
I used this because I was having compilation problems, and I remember reading somewhere in one of your documents that the tutorial had been done with Ubuntu 18. I wanted to give myself the best possible chance
The error message to me looks very much like your (V)machine is running out of memory. Retry with make -j 8 or so to not overwhelm it with jobs....
@baentsch Can you please have a look that the errors that I was receiving. I'm using Ubuntu 20.04 and I made OpenSSL Open Safe Quantum as a default openssl on my system.  I can create quantum certificates and use s-server and s-client by using openssl. not apps/openssl......... So I'm trying to work with stunnel and I installed stunnel from source.
When I run ./configure in stunnel I got this. It is configuring TLS from /usr/local/ssl which is a pure OQS openssl
Then, when I do make, I get these errors. Is there something that I can modify for it to work?
Thank you so much for your time.
The error message clearly points to liboqs not being linked in. But I have to apologize for not having time to look into this deeply: I shifted focus away from this old software and recommend the same to anyone else, too: Please switch to OpenSSL3 ( & oqsprovider for PQC).
