Right now to install the pyEPR package you need to clone it and add it to the environment variables. I think it would be much simpler if we add pyEPR to the Anaconda cloud, this way to download the package all you need is to run something like conda install -c minev pyEPR and you're done. The upload process isn't that long and all you need is a free anaconda account. Here is the documentation on how to do so
Ok, I'll set up an account on anaconda.
Ive been trying to do it like this with meta.yaml but right now the data isnt't even finding the version  ...
I never really done something like that (except for the example they provide) so I can't really help you (managing packages/versions is always the annoying part :( ). Do you need to run setup.py first or something maybe? By the way, I'm guessing that you're trying to do this from your personal computer (a mac) and not a computer that actually runs the code (only works on windows :( ), since the package is only built for osx (you can see that on the package page). This means you can't install the package through conda unless you have a mac (and I don't have) so I can't install the package (using conda install simply returns that no such package exists).
It is a mac. Hmm, i need to figure out how to get more channels.
I fixed the data.get('version') issue.
Now i have some other issues with can't find setup.py ...
I really don't know nothing about it... they have a much simpler meta.yaml on the example that doesn't reference setup.py at all, maybe it's possible like that?
Ok, youre right , i think i was biting off too much at once. I dumbed it down a bit without the setup info and now i can upload again.
Cool :), don't forget to upload it from a windows computer as well.
Figuring it out ... By the way, if you have a conda cloud account I can add you
Thanks 😃 I do have an account, the username is DnL. I can add a linux package although it wouldn't be any useful right now.
I added you. Try this now: https://anaconda.org/zlatko-minev/pyepr-quantum. Will helped a lot.
I tried installing it but it didn't work, on windows I got this message:
I don't get what CUDA has to do anything but ok. I'll try checking what causing the issue, probably some of the dependencies are in conflict, maybe try to remove them for now only to check if they cause the issue?
Also tried it on a WSL and got:
Works for me
Can you do a new conda env
conda create --name py36 python=3.6
conda activate py36
conda install -c zlatko-minev -c conda-forge pyepr-quantum
I think this maybe done now. Both PyPi and conda forge, thanks to @willsALMANJ
Try using: https://pypi.org/project/pyEPR-quantum/0.8/
and conda search -c conda-forge pyepr-quantum
Could you test to see if these work for you? Thank you!
Nice!! I will check it out
Edit: Seems to work correctly 😄 I haven't tested all my codes using it yet but I don't think it would cause an issue. I'll check it more thoroughly tomorrow when I get to the lab and if it works I think we can close this issue.
Super! Glad to hear it seems to work. I will add somewhere in the docs soon how to upload and push changes to pypi and conda.
Maybe this issue could be closed? I was able to install it from conda (on Mac) with
Another issue could be opened about documenting the installation in the docs. I am happy to help there.
Yes, thank you. Let me close this issue then. Would you mind helping then with the doc part?
Will be happy to.
