I'm trying to write to AD9914 registers using flterm, I've first initialised the DDS' using an experiment file.
I read 0x05 from DDS 0, which has been set to 0x89 after the self.dds0.init() from the experiment.
I reset the dds,
And see that the register value has been reset to the default of 0x0900.
now if I try to right to that register and FUD, it doesn't update.
Even init from flterm doesn't work.
I tried setting the bus,
ddstest fails,
Also, I think in help the command,
Should be ddstest <c> <n>.
I can see the FUDs on the scope so I think that's fine.
Toggling the reset pin, which is what ddsreset does, tickles various AD9914 silicon bugs (the runtime does not reset them for this reason). Are you sure this isn't what you are seeing? Do you still have problems if you power-cycle the DDS cards while making sure that reset is not toggled?
I tried turning off the DDS' and fpga, restarting them loading flterm and starting with ddstest 1 0. Still get this problem.
Looking on the scope, ddsreset pulses the reset for about 500 ns (100 MHz clock signal to FPGA). ddsfud sends a pulse of about 5 ns. Does that sound right?
Looking at ddstest, there's a reset about 75 us before the ddsfud, with the bits being written in between.
Okay, looking at the write pin, which is pin 56 according to the schematic I have, all ddsw pulls low for about 5 ns, which also seems to make sense.
Strangely, the dds on channel 3 can be written to but not completely.
This is correct behavior according the datasheet for the AD9914; when you are doing a write, the "action" is all happening in the parallel address and data buses.
if I move dds3 to channel 5, it's behaviour is reproduced.
Okay, looks like it's a hardware error. I power cycled them and replugged them in. I was using a test file that programmed the DDS' to output integer multiples of 100 MHz so I thought they were programming okay. Looks like some of the data lines aren't connected properly.
Sorry for the trouble.
This looks to me like a single data bit is not connected or is broken on this chip.  f going to d and a going to 8 means that D1 is always low no matter what.  I would imagine that a broken address bit is responsible for the DDS where you can't read all the registers.
Looking on the scope, ddsreset pulses the reset for about 500 ns
Again, don't reset AD9914s. They are buggy.
We had a look at the chips using a probe station and looks like some of the data lines aren't soldered properly. flterm was very useful in diagnosing these problems. From #185, flterm was removed from the conda packages. I'm wondering if it would be useful to have some sort of dds.test function in artiq that has the same functionality as the ddstest in flterm does.
flterm is still available in conda, but it is part of the misoc package.
