I would like to contribute by translating the game to the spanish language, would that be of interest?
I'm italian. I translate only from english or french. Sorry.
D'
@pensareadaltro maybe you could do the english-italian translation, and I work on the spanish one!
Let me know what you would like me to translate. And point out the file well so I can understand the amount of work and let you know if and when it could be ready.
D'
Great! How about we start with readme.md file?
I'm not sure, but I guess we should each fork the project separately to work on.
I tried to make a fork and pushed my request. Confirm that this is the right way to work and make me a list of priorities.
Soon.
D '
Ok, I'm not related to the repository owners, so I can't tell for sure: but forking seems OK to work. I also did fork the repository, so I'm going to start working myself. I think readme.md Is a good start, what do you think?
I have added you as a contributor so you can have a direct look at the work on the read.me file which is fully translated.
Maybe the next step could be the rulebook.
Let me know.
D'
I checked out your work. I don't speak italian, but ir looks great! I think too that the rulebook Is the next step to take.
Well, the opening page and the Rule Book are ready (spanish version). There are documents that are part of the Rule Book, so I'll have them ready in no time, and then the graphics.
I call someone of the game staff to aid in this, to be able to provide editable graphics.
In fact, it would be perfect to have editable graphics, in order to obtain a tabletop in Italian (or Spanish) in an easy way.
Hi, I can provide the original designs in .ai format. Excited to see your expansions.
Great! Let us know how can we access the files.
Hi, I can provide the original designs in .ai format.
Maybe editable pdf for me will be better.
D'
I just double checked the v1.3 release.
Almost all of the PDFs are editable. The tricky parts are the map of the universe and the engine cards (CNOT and SWAP). I suggest to keep the English names for the planets and the gates given that their names reflect the quantum concepts behind them.
Having said that let me know if there are other game assets that you have problem editing. I look forward to seeing the results! :)
btw, have you seen the Czech version [github, website] by @janlouda?
Hi,
We are a group of PhD students and senior researchers in quantum physics from the Paris area, and we would like to provide a French translation of the Entanglion game, in order to use it to communicate about quantum information during mainstream quantum events. Do you think it would be possible for you to share with us the original .ai design files ? It would then be easier for us to modify them ^^
Thanks !
@DIMQuanTiP #16 (comment) you should be able to open the pdfs in illustrator
Cc @jweisz
