When the quantum register is a singleton, the MPL drawer just prints the name without the subindex. This only happens with the MPL drawer and all of the rest drawers:

In addition, the MPL drawer does not follow this logic for the classical registers:

Personally, I like the idea of printing just the name when registers are singletons and I think that should be the standard in all the drawers and all the registers types.
Can I have a go at this @1ucian0 ?
Sure thing! Thanks!
@1ucian0 could you provide some help on how to get the circuit to be drawn with latex? I have fixed the errors in the mpl and the text drawers but seem to get the following error whenever I try to draw the circuit with latex -
WARNING: Unable to compile latex. Is "pdflatex" installed? Skipping latex circuit drawing...
FileNotFoundError: [WinError 2] The system cannot find the file specified
You need a way to compile latex. Do you have pdflatex installed?
Yes, that's the problem. It is installed -
Requirement already satisfied: pdflatex in e:\anaconda\envs\fixissue_env\lib\site-packages (0.1.3) and then too it isn't working.
@TheGupta2012 I had this problem once and even though I had pdflatex installed I had to do an install of TeX Live in order to get everything working.
Hi, @TheGupta2012. I'm just checking to see if you're still working on this. If you're having problems with the latex drawer, you could submit a draft PR with your mpl and text changes. If there's anything else I can help with on the latex install, let me know.
Hey @enavarro51  I did update my code for the issue pertaining to all the cases but it was failing some local tests in visualization. Would you be able to help as to where I am going wrong in the updates?.
make test fails in visualizations for text based circuits. All my matplotlib circuits do pass in the binder notebook given in the contributing guidelines but I don't know where to check for the text and the latex based circuit tests? This commit shows the current code changes in my personal remote.
