I wanted to test 3.0.dev py_820+gitf4ae166 on Windows. I installed artiq through conda, flashed the coredevice and modified its IP an MAC address following the instructions. At this point, I can ping the device and run experiments using artiq_run. However, if I start both artiq_master and artiq_dashboard, and try to run experiments from the dashboard, I get a timeout error,
After this, even if I close the master and dashboard, the device still can't be pinged. If I power cycle the device then I can ping it again.  If I only start the master, I can ping the device. It's once I start the dashboard as well that socket connections fail. This seems to happen on the virtual machine as well. Any idea what might have caused this? The experiment I tried using artiq_run just to see if things worked was
And I could see the LED flash.
What's on the core device console?
You mean the corelog?
using flterm I had to reset the device
Resetting flterm while the dashboard is running prevents you from being able to ping the device. This is the log after I reset with the dashboard terminated but master still running. At 32 I use artiq_run to run the experiment from above which works. I then started the dashboard which resulted in that panic line which then prevents me from communicating with the device.
Is this something you guy see on your setup as well? Any other information I can try to get to help debug this?
I see this as well, running artiq_master (commit f4ae166) on a Linux machine, and with the dashboard running on Windows. (My Linux machine for this is headless, so I cannot test the GUI under Linux).
@r-srinivas @cjbe You could enable full logging with the patch below, and post the output from UART.
@whitequark here is the UART output after applying your patch and trying to run an experiment from the dashboard (using artiq_run still works fine):
uart-log.txt
Oh wonderful, that's actually two bugs masking each other...
I believe that both smoltcp bugs were fixed, and we also stopped using UDP for moninj, so this is not reproducible anymore.
