In folding.py, check_foldable is used to verify if the input circuit contains non-unitary gates or non-terminal measurements.
Instead of failing to fold the entire circuit for above reason, an additional check could be done to see if the rest of the circuit could still be folded except for the index/moment with non-acceptable gates. If a user knows the positions of such gates then they should also be given the option to input an exclusion set i.e. fold rest of the circuit beyond the exclusion set.
If this is added then all other functions will need to take exclusion set as input as well to output a folded circuit (I think ?). If the exclusion set is not provided then check_foldable could create a set as needed.
This issue had no activity for 2 months, and will be closed in one week unless there is new activity. Cheers!
I do want to work on this soon after I have caught up with other things I am currently working on.
This issue had no activity for 2 months, and will be closed in one week unless there is new activity. Cheers!
This issue had no activity for 2 months, and will be closed in one week unless there is new activity. Cheers!
no don't close
@rmlarose @andreamari Does following seem like a good solution to this issue ? I haven't started a design document for it yet because I wanted some feedback before. I am also available to discuss this on all weekdays except Tuesdays and Thursdays.
I want to define a couple of functions for above case similar to how _pop_measurements is used but still a bit differently :

If there's more than 1 non-foldable gates then there will be multiple portions, multiple moments shifted etc.
Hi @purva-thakre, in principle something like this could work but I also see some critical aspects:
Given the previous points my main question, before we go into the details, is the following:
Happy to discuss over Discord about this if you want.
This issue had no activity for 2 months, and will be closed in one week unless there is new activity. Cheers!
