This is a compiler bug says SB.
Also the colors are not right in the GUI. The color escape sequences were still displayed in the GUI Log.
I cannot do anything without the source of repository/std_include.py.
As for the error itself, yes, it is horribly mangled. I will fix that shortly.
Create the error by removing the self.counts and self.rep_i initialization from build()
Note two things that the old compiler did better:
Also, setting nreps to 5 causes artiq.coredevice.exceptions.InternalError: Hardware exception 6 at PC 0x42020b08, EA 0x00000023
no requirement for this initialization (e.g. for attributes that reside entirely on device)
Initialization is intentionally required; this is a feature, not a bug. This way, the typechecker will accept accesses to attributes, regardless of what kernel code is pulled in by any particular kernel that you call. Otherwise, the typechecker would exhibit "action at a distance": adding or removing a piece of code will affect whether another seemingly unrelated piece of code compiles. The old compiler was able to accept this usage at the cost of being less rigorous almost everywhere else.
interleaving of sideview_pmt.gate_rising, which had to be done manually in this code.
Can you post the with parallel: statement you were trying to write?
Also, setting nreps to 5 causes artiq.coredevice.exceptions.InternalError: Hardware exception 6 at PC 0x42020b08, EA 0x00000023
This is certainly a bug and I will address that soon.
Ah yes, the same issue as (somewhat misleadingly named) #193; see #193 (comment) for an outline of my proposed solution.
default_std.py
GUI was fixed. The issue which caused InternalError was triaged as #232. The solution is to replace
with
The former code should have been rejected with a diagnostic, but that did not happen, causing a memory safety bug.
Can you confirm that the solution above works for you?
BTW there is no need to write range(int(self.nreps)), just range(self.nreps) is enough.
Yes, the problem was self.nreps was a float in Joe's initial code; I converted it once and for all in build but had not removed all the ad-hoc conversions yet when that code was pasted.
