Describe the issue
The "Stochastic Solver" page on the users guide currently have typos on equations and the text. Additionally, I believe the page could be improved by:
I would like to volunteer to make these changes.
Hi Leo-am,
Thank you for your interest, any help would be greatly appreciated.
stochastic documentation is certainly lacking.
If there are any error in the equations, please let me know so I can check that they are not also present in the code.
Hi Eric,
thanks for your eager response.
I'll let you know if I find any errors.
Since you mentioned the equations in the code, I believe it would be interesting to add explicitly which equations are solved when the options method="homodyne" and method="heterodyne" are selected. Specifically, I would like to check what are the values of dW_factors in both cases.
I rechecked the equations:
The stochastic integration has the general form:

For ssesolve:

And for smesolve:

The liouvillian use both the sc_ops and c_ops for collapse, but the d_2 part only use sc_ops.
In heterodyne detection, each sc_ops is split into 2 parts computed individually:

m_ops for homodyne:

m_ops for heterodyne:

In both case the dW's default is 1. In the heterodyne case, the sqrt(2) is expected to be included inside dW_factor when it's length is the same as m_ops.
The equation for d_{2,i} for ssesolve seems to be missing a 1/2 term. I checked two sources: Quantum Measurement and Control, Wiseman and Milburn (equation 4.76, page 162), and the development notebook for SSE. In both cases, the expression for d_{2, i} for the SSE is:

For the stochastic master equation, I also found a different expression for d_{2,i}. Both book (equations 4.24 and 4.72 in pages 152 and 161, respectively) and development notebook, state that it should be written:

To test the current qutip implementation, I tried to replicate the results of both SSE and SME development notebooks. The results obtained with QuTiP homodyne and heterodyne methods were similar to the results obtained with the d_1 and d_2 implemented 'by hand' in the notebooks, which used the expressions I listed above. In my tests, I used QuTiP 4.5.2.
The equations above are also the current reported equations in the stochastic solver documentation.
You are right, I made the mistake writing the equations here.
Hi Eric,
I'm almost done, there is just one warning that I would like to check with you before I submit a PR.
Do you know a possible cause for this warning?
No, I never got similar error...
You seems to be following the instruction in the doc's readme which usually work well.
Your branch seems to be not up to date with master, maybe if you merge the recent changes and rebuild qutip from source, it would work.
@Leo-am Tx for closing!
