The section An Important Distinction says:
An important distinction between the probabilistic case described above and the quantum case is that probabilistic states may just mask out ignorance. For example a coin is physically only 0 or 1 and the probabilistic view merely represents our ignorance about which it actually is. This is not the case in quantum mechanics. Assuming events occuring at a distance from one another cannot instantaneously influence each other, the quantum states — as far as we know — cannot mask any underlying state. This is what people mean when they say that there is no local hidden variable theory for quantum mechanics. These probabilistic quantum states are as real as it gets: they don’t just describe our knowledge of the quantum system, they describe the physical reality of the system.
My impression is that there is no consensus on whether quantum states are epistemic, ontic, or some combination of the two. This is still true if nonlocal models like Bohmian mechanics are disgarded (as in the quoted section).
I think this section is important to get correct, as it introduces a core concept in quantum mechanics. I propose the following rewrite:
The probabilistic states described above represent ignorance of an underlying state. For a probabilistic bit, the underlying state is always either 0 or 1. This is not true for quantum states. The nature of quantum states is a deep topic with no full scientific consensus. However, no-go theorems like Bell's Theorem have theoretically and experimentally ruled out the option of local hidden variable theories for quantum mechanics. Effectively, these say that quantum states can't be interpreted as representing ignorance of an underlying objective classical state (except in non-local interpretations like Bohmian mechanics). In practice this means that a pure quantum state simply is the complex vector described in the last section, and we consider it just as "real" as a heads-up coin.
while we're at it, can we replace 'complex vector' with 'complex line'
@dangirsh Pull requests are that way ->
@ecp-rigetti Not sure what you mean, but the wikipedia definition of 'complex line' is not what we're talking about: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Complex_line
