Here are some ideas for improvements to the existing tutorials:
Hi can pickup the first point.
What kind of system is the %package Microsoft.Quantum.Katas::0.11.2003.3107 command in your Jupyter notebooks supposed to work on? It doesn't work on Linux or Windows (even after loading #Q SDK)
@sincak It's supposed to work on both Linux and Windows (and macOS too, I think). Did you do all the steps of installing Jupyter Notebooks and IQ# as described in the installation guide, so that running dotnet iqsharp --version from command line gives you an IQ# version that matches the one in the %package command?
A couple suggestions for the reference solutions to the PhaseEstimation kata:
@ed1d1a8d, these are very good points, thank you!
Would you be interested in sending a pull request adding an alternate reference solution for 1.4 and replacing solution to 2.2? If not, I'll get to it at some point but not in the next three weeks...
Sure, I'd be happy to send in a pull request. I know you guys are probably busy preparing the Codeforces Q# contest :)
Hi I can pickup the 2 points on Multi-qubit gates
EDIT: The 1st and 2nd subparts are done and I have created the pull request Pull #375 
I can take up first 2 points of Grover's Algorithm. I also wish to expand the Grover's Algorithm Kata to perhaps give a better explanation and analysis of the Algorithm.
@jainvasu631
Sounds good on the first two points of Grover's algorithm!
For expanding the kata, I was thinking that we need a low-level tutorial on Grover's search, a bit similar to what is done in https://github.com/microsoft/MLADS2020-QuantumClassification/, so that the low-level tutorial would cover the implementation of the algorithm itself, and the existing high-level picks it up from there. It's probably similar to what you're thinking, but I usually stick to the difference between a "kata" (a series of exercises without theory) and a "tutorial" (explanation of theory accompanied by demos and exercises).
@tcNickolas  I have added the relevant sections in VisualizingGroversAlgorithm notebook in Pull Request #449
