When importing scqubits after a fresh install, I get the error:
when running
The error can be fixed easily by installingh5py by hand via
After installing h5py, scqubits works without error.
I have tested this with python version 3.9.6
To reproduce the error, you could create a new conda environment with
activate the environment and install scqubits
and run
I don't know why pip doesn't install h5py since it's listed as a requirement in setup.py.
Thanks for the report, I will take a look.
A quick note, however. We typically discourage installing scqubits via pip under conda... usually a safer/better approach would be to do:
conda install -c conda-forge scqubits  
Does that not work for you?
(As a side note, I think we may not have added python 3.9 as officially supported yet though, so i'm not sure what conda install does when trying to install a package without official support...  - either way we should probably do that soon)
I usually try to avoid mixing pip with conda. However for python 3.9, an installation via conda as you suggested, returns the following error:
I guess this will change once you add python 3.9 as officially supported. Don't know if this solves the original issue though.
Thanks for checking...
Will include adding 3.9 as officially supported as a high priority item, as it seems more and more people are using it these days.
Will also check why h5py does not get installed automatically.
Both pytests on github and azure explicitly draw in the optional-requirements.txt. This is currently done because it includes pytest - but it also includes other optional dependencies such as h5py. It is thus possible that tests currently miss that I/we could have accidentally turned h5py into a required dependency the way imports are handled.
TODO
Confirmed: h5py was accidentally imported without the needed switch [in fileio.py; import was introduced as part of type checking]. This should now be fixed with 73932dd.
The import works now without an error with python 3.9. Thank you!
