I tried building current master (7c2fe69 from Dec 27th) on Debian unstable in order to evaluate how much work a 8.1 release would be. It compiles fine, but I get a crash on executions:
Crashing in grid_sphere_cache_free sounds oddly specific for just running cp2k --help, so maybe I did something very odd? Note that I hacked in an external libdbcsr-2.1 (-ldbcsr), but the stack trace looks unrelated to that.
This is the arch file:
This is the output of bt full:
Unfortunately, I can not reproduce this, but I don't think grid_sphere_cache_free is the culprit. I suspect that some other code is overwriting the grid_library_globals.
Does it also occur without the external libdbcsr?
Maybe you can use gdb to set a watchpoint for that memory location?
Unfortunately, I can not reproduce this, but I don't think grid_sphere_cache_free is the culprit. I suspect that some other code is overwriting the grid_library_globals.
Does it also occur without the external libdbcsr?
Ok, I'll try to check that.
Maybe you can use gdb to set a watchpoint for that memory location?
Which one would that be exactly?
Which one would that be exactly?
You should be able to get it like this:
ah, thanks.
It's a null pointer dereference apparently:
Which now sounds logical when I reread the Segmentation fault: address not mapped to object at address (nil)) from above...
Does it also occur without the external libdbcsr?
I tried that now, same thing :-/
This is the link line:
Independant of this issue (which I think is serious): @mbanck please drop the -fallow-argument-mismatch as that one should not be necessary anymore, and if it is needed we need to know.
Also __GFORTRAN, _FFTSG, __BLACS are not supported (anymore) and __ELPA is now a simple define.
I'm confused. Apparently it crashes in grid_sphere_cache.c:164 because cache is a null pointer. However, that address was just computed in grid_library.c:62.
One thing that might be helpful is to once watch the library_initialized variable to check if it's in the proper state:
It might be that this parallel region is not running with enough threads.
Could you please once try this patch:
Looking at your arch file again, it seems you are compiling the C code without -fopenmp.
Looking at your arch file again, it seems you are compiling the C code without -fopenmp.
That was it, thanks. I guess it worked until 7.1 to not explicitly define CFLAGS, but now it bombs due to the C rewrite of grid?
If so, it'd be nice there could be more obvious abort at build time telling others that just copy over their custom arch files that they now need CFLAGS=-fopenmp
but now it bombs due to the C rewrite of grid?
Exactly!
If so, it'd be nice there could be more obvious abort at build time
I totally agree. I'll take care of that.
Cool, thanks.
FYI, I didn't run the whole regtests, but the ones that I ran had two threshold errors in grid:
I've opened #1257 and also adjusted those two thresholds.
