Trying to build master at commit 98141a0 failed.
More info at: https://travis-ci.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/jobs/225005209
The above identified a performance regression on master, but the issue was not created with the 'benchmarks failing' tag.
We should update report_ci_failure.py so that benchmark regressions are tagged, and are given a more descriptive title than 'master is failing.' Also, distinguishing between benchmark regressions and failures (benchmarks could not be run) would be useful.
At least last time I looked unless the benchmarks refuse to run outright (like an import error during benchmark discovery) they always return with a 0 return code regardless of whether any benchmarks failed or not.
For example, the state tomography benchmarks have been failing since #400 landed (because #2414 broke running terra master with ignis 0.1.1) and it won't be fixed until ignis 0.2.0 is released and we update the benchmarks to use it. But, I've not seen any of the travis benchmark jobs listed as failed because of that.
Good point. I had seen that asv wouldn't raise if benchmarks failed on both on the base and branch but was hoping if there was a change in status (base ran but branch failed), asv might raise. Benchmarks aren't unit tests, but if a commit breaks a benchmark, it be helpful to get a heads up. Maybe worth an issue in asv?
(I thought the state tomography benchmarks had been out of service for awhile? Last commit in asv is 8609f7a .)
Good point. I had seen that asv wouldn't raise if benchmarks failed on both on the base and branch but was hoping if there was a change in status (base ran but branch failed), asv might raise. Benchmarks aren't unit tests, but if a commit breaks a benchmark, it be helpful to get a heads up. Maybe worth an issue in asv?
It looks like there is already an open issue for it: airspeed-velocity/asv#449
I might give it a try if I get some spare time, it shouldn't be super hard to fix.
(I thought the state tomography benchmarks had been out of service for awhile? Last commit in asv is 8609f7a .)
Well we haven't done a backfill run #400 has merged the other day, but doesn't work for any commits after #2414. I was planning to backfill the benchmark data for state tomography this weekend.
I gave a shot at adding a flag to return non-zero on benchmark failure here: airspeed-velocity/asv#865
OK it's merged, now we just need to wait for the next asv release and we can update the CI jobs to run asv continuous with the --strict flag and it'll have a return code of 2 if the benchmarks fail.
Benchmarks in CI have been removed.
