Hi!
I'd like to report an installation issue on CentOS/RHEL platforms. I've tested various Python versions (2.7, 3.4) on both RHEL 6.x and 7.x, and the error is consistent, and happens during compilation of some Cython files.
The error is: ambiguous overloaded method referring to the abs() function, and happens in two different places.
Full installation output:
Tested with:
Any recommendation on how to fix this?
Thanks!
Did it work with the previous Cython 0.25?
I don't know, that's my first qutip installation. :)
But I just tried, and it indeed works with Cython 0.25, thanks for the pointer.
The latest version of QuTiP (4.2) should work just fine.  There was some importing slight of hand in the old (4.1) file that was causing the issue.
Please let me know if the latest version works, so that I may close this issue.
Hi @nonhermitian,
I don't see any 4.2 release nor v4.2 tag, which commit should I test?
You can just grab the master.
So I did just that, and the "overloaded method" error doesn't happen again, which is good.
But installation still fails on other errors, I believe related to NumPy:
Versions:
Hi, could you try with python 3.5+ ? It is recommended. Also, if you have the package manager conda (Miniconda). Installing QuTiP 4.2 is as easy as conda install -c conda-forge qutip=4.2
Try Pull #731.  It seems to fix the issues with Cython 0.26 for me.
I have the same exact same NumPy errors in a fresh VirtualEnv with Python 3.6.1 and #731.
With what errors?
Tested here at work on Win with Cython 0.26, and built fine.
With what errors?
The ones from #723 (comment)
@sahmed95 do you fancy making a CentOS/RHEL VM to see if you can replicate this issue?
@kcgthb have you tested this inside of a conda env on CentOS/RHEL?
I ask because that is our supported platform.
The cluster that I use is running on CentOS 6.7. As it is important to me that qutip runs on this, then I will give our 4.2 version a test on this.
I created a CentOS VM - which I think may have been unnecessary and a bit time consuming
I installed Miniconda and the qutip required libraries. Initially this was cython 0.25.2
I installed qutip 4.2 (the version we created for the release) from source with no error.
I upgraded to cython 0.26, for which I had to use the conda-forge channel.
I tried to install qutip 4.2 (the version we created for the release) from source and found the errors reported by @kcgthb
I installed qutip 4.2 (the version from #731 ) from source with no error.
I would say therefore that this issue is fixed by #731
@kcgthb I suggest you stick with cython 0.25 until we have officially released qutip 4.2, which should work with cython 0.26
@ajgpitch Sounds good to me, thanks!
