After creating a Bloch sphere object, I can add vectors and visualise it with the method show(). All fine so far.
This however works only the first time. If I call show() a second time, it doesn't output anything.
Indeed
renders the Bloch sphere. Calling again b.show() does not work as you say.
Interestingly, invoking just
gives an error, but plots the correct sphere again.
Regarding the no-show, I guess there is something to fiddle with at
https://github.com/qutip/qutip/blob/master/qutip/bloch.py#L625-L632
I tried to solve this issue. It seems like this is known, and expected, behavior of plt.show(), described e.g. here https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50452455/plt-show-does-nothing-when-used-for-the-second-time/51005555
The workaround depends on the user environment. For Ipython one uses display() function from IPython.display, while in other cases using fig.show() instead of plt.show(fig) works.
This would however make the code more involved and environment-dependent, so I didn't decide to submit a PR right away, but I can do with the above fix if somebody from qutip team agrees.
@wrzadkow thank you. It sounds good to me. Could detect whether the environment  is IPython.
If you can write a test too for it to avoid environment-dependent errors that would be great.
@nathanshammah thanks! Submitted a PR that seems to be fixing the issue in the above mentioned way.
Naturally I have brief tests for that, in a form of Jupyter notebook and in the form of .py file (the .py is just a copy of Jupyter but here we need to test both environments). Should I commit the .py file to qutip/tests/ on this repo (add to my PR) and Jupyter test to qutip-notebooks or there is another standard way?
Addressed by #996.
@wrzadkow I now read your last comment. I found no previous test for Bloch. If you want to add one that would be great but besides checking the environment I wouldn’t know how to do it. But you’re welcome to go ahead. I don’t think that there are tests in qutip-notebooks, Travis CI only looks into qutip/qutip. Thank you for the PR.
@nathanshammah OK, my "tests" were just creating instances of Bloch() with and without plt.figure() instance passed in the constructor and then repeatedly executing the show() function. Now after I had a look at qutip/tests my small testing snippets indeed don't fit into that. Hence at this stage I don't see the benefit from adding these trivial "tests" I did to the repo. Thank you for the review and all the guidance.
