After re-building all packages on Xeon Scalable Bronze, which has AVX512, I noticed that multiple packages, which are linked against openblas, do not pass their tests anymore or their test never finish.
The affected packages that I have observed are:
Possible workarounds are:
openblas 0.3.15 is already in staging (need to check if the problem still exists here).
cc @sheepforce
EDIT: openblas-0.3.15, which is staging does not seem to solve any of the problems.
Ah to bad that this affects even more packages. At the moment I am setting OPENBLAS_CORETYPE=HASWELL in the preOverlay and this works, but I guess NO_AVX512=1 is more specific. Do we know if this problem also exists upstream at OpenBLAS itself, outside of NixPkgs?
I have not found any other reports of bugs so far. Neither Debian nor Fedora turn it off in their builds. I am a bit puzzled that no one else has discovered this problem.
It could be that we have a fringe case here: AVX512 is not very widely used (only in more expensive CPUs) combined with the fact that HPC applications tend to use MKL more frequently than openblas.
EDIT: Linux brew turns it off.
Hm, possibly we should let the OpenBLAS developers know?
Now that you've merged #54 we can maybe check if the problems in CP2K, XTB and Bagel with BLAS can be solved. I've built them all on my AVX512 machine an it is very well possible, that I've ran into such problems there.
Hm, possibly we should let the OpenBLAS developers know?
Yes that would be good, but this bug report will be very unspecific from the point of the developers: we have no idea which routines are affected (I am not sure yet how to write that bug report).
Now that you've merged #54 we can maybe check if the problems in CP2K, XTB and Bagel with BLAS can be solved. I've built them all on my AVX512 machine an it is very well possible, that I've ran into such problems there.
Yes, that would be nice. For Bagel it may not work, since that always had trouble with openblas.
Now that the fix is available upstream and those packages build with OpenBlas, can we close this?
