A FAQ that the community could contribute to and keep updated would probably help reduce the learning curve's slope.  Possibly it would be good to have it editable via a git repo so that the git toolset may be utilized.  It would be great to hear from others if this is desirable, and how they think this might be implemented effectively.
I think this could be helpful, particularly for common questions for new users.  It might also be a good place to give some basic information on things like how to make issue posts most productive (e.g. recognizing and avoiding XY problems, searching past issues or manual, etc), general style and design philosophy for ARTIQ (i.e. aiming for generality and flexibility, trying not to load up with a ton of specific features that are only relevant for a few users, attacking large design problems in stages rather than trying to spec/do the whole thing at once, etc).
A few thoughts and questions:
My own opinions on the above:
I'd be willing to support and contribute and I think it is a great idea. In the end Sinara and ARTIQ are hard to separate I think. It also depends on what M-labs thinks of this.
@HarryMakes Could such a FAQ have some overlap with this project? https://git.m-labs.hk/harry/mlabs-kb-cobalt
I think that a wiki would be worth considering as an alternative to a knowledge base. I see that the KB, coupled with VCS/PR, provides authoritative, peer-reviewed information, but the contribution step is high, as can be seen from the relatively few contributions to the manual in this repository. IMO, if users are ready to take the information presented on a wiki with a little grain of salt, examples like the ArchWiki are very convincing to provide up-to-date information with fast user feedback.
While certain groups certainly use ARTIQ without Sinara, the vast majority surely makes the projects synonymous (as-in "the ARTIQ DDS modules"). I think that the gap to fill is documentation on how to use ARTIQ with Sinara (and vice-versa). At the moment, if I want full documentation on running e.g. Urukul with ARTIQ, I need to visit three different repositories in three different organizations: sinara-hw/Urukul (the HW design), quartiq/urukul (the PL design), m-labs/artiq or m-labs.hk (the coredevice drivers). It certainly makes sense to keep these repositories separated (I guess also for documentation maintainability reasons?) but this is missing overview.
Would it be an option to build on the Sinara wikis and add ARTIQ-specific information there? The Sinara hardware can be used without ARTIQ, but ARTIQ is the main entry-point to Sinara hardware (or vice-versa?), except maybe for some Humpback/Banker-based designs.
Would it be an option to build on the Sinara wikis and add ARTIQ-specific information there?
It could be for sure.  Just be aware though that the GitHub wikis have pretty limited functionality.  For the Sinara board wikis it's likely worth living with to have the wikis nicely integrated into the repositories.
On the other hand setting up something stand-alone adds like the 9th place I need to check if I have an issue...
On the other hand setting up something stand-alone adds like the 9th place I need to check if I have an issue...
On the other hand, it could improve the problem if it replaced and consolidated some of the static-ish website jumping-off points we currently have (eg. https://m-labs.hk/experiment-control/resources/ and https://sinara-hw.github.io).  There would be one url we could send all people to where they could get a picture of everything. Would be good to get @sbourdeauducq take here.
I don't think the "resources" page can be replaced completely, or at least not its "community code" section.
I've been wanting to make Sinara datasheets for a while (collecting all information scattered around and taking new measurements), but I've been too occupied by other things. For the hardware itself, I'm not sure if a wiki makes sense, since it's pretty static. There's already a (not very good) FAQ in the ARTIQ manual: https://m-labs.hk/artiq/manual/faq.html
What about sending PRs against it which we could then review? The FAQ could have subsections dedicated to each Sinara card.
I think sending PRs is a good idea, however then the overall curation is missing. Also I doubt that a lot of people will think "ah now I have an answer to my question, let me create a PR".
An option could be to curate the input to the FAQ first and then send a PR, with the already mentioned community experts being the curators. Initially this team could go through github issues and forum posts to extract which questions are actually frequently asked.
