find alternative to pyqode package
pyqode is end of life and to support pyside2 we had to limit the installs to only python 3.7.8 (limit imposed from pyside2 releases that are still compatible with pyqode). Removing pyqode will allow to use more recent versions of python
Raising to high priority.
It has been found that we cannot publish on Pypi (and probably conda) because of our dependency from the github forked pyqode.qt. Therefore either we make that fork merge into their main, or we need to get rid of pyqode.
Getting rid of it will restore our ability to run any python version, thus improving adoptability.
Notes:
pyQode is a widget to edit source code, and I believe it is only used in the code to realize the QComponent editing window, but would need a look to the code to confirm that.
There should be alternatives, such as QScintilla, QPlainTextEdit, QTextEdit, but these are GPLs, which are no good to integrate with Apache. We need to look for something with a liberal license (BSD, MIT, Apache), or look for a harm-length method to legally link to a weakly protective license package (LGPL, MPL, AGPL, ...).
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/License_compatibility
Our case should be recognized as "combined work", not derivative. If you check this image, basically we should not end into the middle box, thus either to the left (strong separation from strong license), or to the right (permissive, or separation from weak license).
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/License_compatibility#/media/File:Software-license-compatiblity-graph.svg
Alternatively, it should not be hard to develop a simple text editor.
Alternatively, (and probably simplest solution) we could setup the code to search for which text editor is installed on the machine and use that. For instance in Windows it would be either Notepad++ (which has text coloring like IDEs) or Notepad. For linux it could be sublime (also text coloring), gedit, atom, brackets, emacs, vim, nedit, vi, etc (there is a bunch). I believe mac also uses sublime, atom, brackets, and I am not sure what is the default that ships with Mac.
