Given I have multiple quasi-distributions and I want to visualise them all at once in a histogram, when I use plot_histogram, I expect that the legend will have keys for each of the different quasi-distributions.
I have this case where one of the quasi-distributions only had counts in 01 and 10, whereas the other distributions had counts across all of the 2-qubit basis states 00, 01, 10, 11 and so because there was no data for 00 for one of the distributions (where 00 is the first bar plotted on the histogram), the legend does not have a key entry for this distribution despite it showing up in the graph for the 10 and 01 states.

I expect a labelled purple box to appear in the legend.
I expect the same graph with a labelled purple box additionally appearing in the legend for dist_3 called "3".
No response
I can reproduce the issue. This issue seems to appear only when 00 has 0 probabilities.

@Astri-Cornish
I did some tests and I found that the problem is happening in this area of the _plotting_core function:
So, if you change your data to:
the plot will be:

But, this is just a simple trick to bypass the problem, the correct way is waiting for a new release.
In my tests, I've changed the _plotting_core function to:
But I've just tests in your example, maybe it can break in another ways.
I'll try to check this code in more datasets, and possibly, I'll be creating a PR.
My tests: 
Thank you @Dpbm! Yes, the dataset I provided was just a test dataset to show the issue with minimal code. The use case I came across this bug was where I have a bell circuit and compare the perfect theoretical circuit results to the results from real hardware, hence the 00 and 11 states additionally popping up in the real device results. As this is learning material I am creating the code for, it would be best if the plotting function works without any adjustments to the datasets.
Hi @Dpbm and @Astri-Cornish. If this issue is still open, would it be ok if I work on it?
Hi @ufranca, there's no problem!
Actually, I've already opened a PR to fix it, I'm just waiting for a code review.
But, if you want, you can check if my modifications really fix the problem and/or there're other problems after my modification.
The PR
my fork (the main branch is the correct)
Ok, great, I'll check it and let you know if I run into any issues.
@Dpbm I see that your PR #10176 got merged, but the issue is still open. Is there still help required for this issue? :)
Looks like this was fixed by #10176, thanks.
