Currently, the construct_circuit method of the qiskit.aqua.components.qfts.Standard class requires both the qubits and circuit parameters to be specified. The enhancement is to make the construct_circuit method work when either or neither of these parameters are specified.
The following code
leads to construct_circuit throwing the exception qiskit.aqua.aqua_error.AquaError: 'Missing input qubits..
The following code
leads to construct_circuit throwing the exception qiskit.aqua.aqua_error.AquaError: 'Missing input QuantumCircuit.'.
This behavior is also seen with other QFT-related classes in qiskit.aqua.components. For example, qiskit.aqua.components.iqfts.Standard.
The documentation for qiskit.aqua.circuits.FourierTransformCircuits.construct_circuit method, which is called by the construct_circuit methods in the QFT-related classes in qiskit.aqua.components, states that the circuit and qubits parameters are both optional, but that method throws an exception if either parameter is not specified.
My idea for a solution to this would be to make  the construct_circuit method in qiskit.aqua.circuits.FourierTransformCircuits behave in the following way:
Then for the construct_circuit method in qiskit.aqua.components.qfts.Standard et al:
I'm happy to work on implementing this solution.
Hi Matthew, at present we have been refactoring variational forms and feature maps (Anzatzes) to improve usability, flexibility as well as having improved synergy with Terra via any needed changes to both Aqua and Terra. This will be extended out to other components once the set of changes have been implemented, aspects of which are still under discussion.
You can see there has already been some discussion recently on QFTs in #860 Also in the past where we planned to have improved flexibility around the circuits a component would generate in #626
At this time I think its best to hold off any alterations, as the changes I mentioned are still somewhat in flux but the goal is to ensure consistency around how Aqua components and their circuits are evolved from here.
Edit: The QFT PR has been merged and the code below works with the latest version of Terra.
The QFT is being was refactored in Qiskit/qiskit#4072. This implements the QFT as QuantumCircuit and partially addresses your suggestions already. Once it is merged you can do
or if you want to insert it into an existing circuit
We're still working on a nicer way to append the QFT on the circuit, though.
@mattarnoatibm Could you check if this resolves all your issues? Or are there still some features you are missing?
Hi @Cryoris , I think that change in qiskit terra adds the features I was looking for with defining QFT circuits. This makes interface for creating a QFT quantum circuit more usable.
