The UI is not showing the status of launched jobs.

Run an example Covalent script. I used my typical example below.
The UI should show the results.
No :(
I tried completely removing my entire Conda env, removing the following files, and a few other things without luck. Reverting to 0.226.0-rc0 resolves the issue for me.
Directories removed:
Strangely, just before this error I had a separate bug where the function names and descriptions for sublattice electrons were showing up under the wrong electrons. But I'll see if I can reproduce that error on >=0.227.0-rc0 once the UI is working.
@Prasy12 could you pick this up as high P bug please ?
@arosen93 , We are looking into this. Can you share the log file .cache/covalent/covalent_ui.log. It would help us debug the issue. TIA
Covalent version: 0.227.0-rc0
Python version: 3.10.12
Operating system: Ubuntu 22.04.2 LTS
These are the steps we followed:
We were able to see the UI working as expected

Please let us know if we are missing something. If the issue persists, the log file would be of great help for us to debug and resolve the issue. Thanks @arosen93
@Aravind-psiog: Thank you for the detailed report. It was very helpful in narrowing this down!
In short, the issue is related to Pydantic, and we need to update the minimum supported version in setup.py, as I justify below.
When I do a clean install of Covalent as you laid out, everything works as expected. Beautiful. Apologies for not trying this before --- I must have overlooked doing so.
When I do an install of Covalent with a package I'm developing, I get the error I reported before. This led me to believe it was a dependency issue.
I then opened the covalent_ui.log you mentioned. Thank you for letting me know about this file, as this was extremely helpful as well. The log file indicated that it is an issue related to Pydantic.
In my environment, I had been using Pydantic 1.10.12, which is "supported" based on Covalent's requirements.txt that lists pydantic>=1.10.1. However, when you install only Covalent in a clean conda env, you get Pydantic 2.3.0 (as expected). There have been some pretty major differences between Pydantic 1 and 2, so I figured this might be the problem.
I then installed only Covalent in a clean conda env but with Pydantic 1.10.12, I was then able to reproduce the error in the UI.
Summary: The Pydantic version in setup.py/requirements.txt needs to be updated from pydantic>=1.10.1 to... something else, likely pydantic>2.
covalent_ui.log
