When a Scannable widget has a unit string you cannot type any digits after the decimal point in to the scan limits.
Example:
Create a widget: self.setattr_argument("test", Scannable(default=LinearScan(0,3,10), unit="us"))
Delete the text in one of the limits, and type '1.23'. All digits after the decimal point are rejected.
The Qt documentation doesn't say, but QAbstractSpinBox.validate is supposed to strip prefix/suffix before validating. QDoubleSpinBox.validate (and others) call this internal function for doing that:
https://github.com/openwebos/qt/blob/master/src/gui/widgets/qabstractspinbox.cpp#L1414
And Qt will sometimes call it with the prefix/suffix and sometimes without. I suppose this is why the internal function above checks that it is actually stripping the prefix/suffix text.
And it will call you with a position inside the suffix!
@jordens FloatValidator is also buggy, you can end up with two e in the text if you insert the second one before the last character. I propose replacing it with QRegExpValidator which will also make it easier to deal with Qt's pesky prefix/suffix corner cases.
Ack. There is also unexpected/wrong behavior on shift/ctrl-wheel depending on the value.
Supporting the exponent notation in the spinbox also introduces currently unsolved problems with ndecimals.
Actually, do we need ScientificSpinbox at all? Since the experiment specifies a scale, the usefulness of exponents is not very clear.
Let's not force users to always determine a scale. There are lots of cases where that doesn't make any sense. And the scan widget also can not make any use of the scale because it conflicts conceptually.
it conflicts conceptually.
How? If the unit of a scan is e.g. MHz, it sounds fine to me.
You can't replace exponential notation by a fixed scale. For the scanwidget -- among other things -- you would not be able to guarantee that you can paint the number in in the space given.
I know, and the real question is whether users actually need to input values that vary by several orders of magnitude in the same field. But the scale/unit parameters still make sense for the scanwidget, don't they?
Absolutely. Unit and scale make a lot of sense. And coupling them is good. FWIW they could even be linked hard.
Users do enter values differing by many orders of magnitude: a scan from 0 MHz to 1 MHz.
There is a lot of funny overlap between units and exponential notation: 0e4 µs, 1e-4 MHz, and 1e9 ns are a priori not very useful but they would be required because e.g. another related value dictates those units.
a scan from 0 MHz to 1 MHz
Well OK, but then you do not need to control one value at e.g. the Hz level but not the other one, do you?
No. In practice you see values that have anywhere from 1 to something like 9 significant digits.
But the idea of being forced to come up with a lot of metadata for a variable just to be able to set it to specific values is painful. There should be a minimal amount of interference by default.
This sounds like a low-impact feature (minor, and users need to think of using exponent notation in the spinbox) and relatively high-cost (involves quite a bit of design and Qt wrestling to get everything right). I propose that we solve the problem at hand by using QDoubleSpinBox in 1.1, and fix/improve ScientificSpinBox in 2.0.
Well OK, but then you do not need to control one value at e.g. the Hz level but not the other one, do you?
One example would be trap voltages -- depending on where in a segmented linear trap an ion is, you might apply ~100 mV (and you care about ~100 uV resolution) or ~10V to the same electrode, again caring about the resolution in the same way (for example making multiple wells along an axis a la the Kenton trap).
QDoubleSpinBox for now sounds ok to me.
