Not sure if this issue belongs to the Terra repository or to another repository. I suspect that the machines ignore the delay instruction, because I don't see decoherence (i.e., excited qubits don't seem to tend towards the ground state as the delay increases).
Here's the output for Terra's main branch:
The choice of machines is arbitrary, and I've observed the same behavior also for additional machines. Similar results are obtained for stable Terra. Apart from Terra I use the stable branches, e.g, stable IBMQ. Am I doing something wrong in the code?
Note that it's important to solve this issue, in order to enable characterization experiments in qiskit-experiments.  @ajavadia @coruscating
It looks like the units are not understood.  Doing dt seems to work whereas us does not
Actually I think any unit is is interpreted as dt.  The unit seems to do nothing.
The circuit must be transpiled to go to dt after which it works.  This is a bit confusing because delay is in the basis set, so one would naively assume that it can be executed just like any other gate in the basis set can be.  There is nothing in the documentation that tells you this as well.  There is also no warning that the circuit will not run as expected.
Yesterday I transpiled the circuit (the circuit then contained barriers, optimization level was 1); still I saw this phenomena in athens and santiago, but not in armonk. I'll try to reproduce.
The behavior is reproducible across systems such as Athens.
Consider the following code:
It works fine:
But removing 800 from the list of delays:
Can it be related to 800 being a multiple of 16 (thanks @eggerdj for the idea) ?  Replacing 800 by 784 gives an incorrect result. Replacing 784 by 800 again gives again a correct result - the behavior looks consistent - you need to have 800 around in order for everything to work.
P.S.  It also works fine when 800 is replaced by 816. But not 815. Can it be that the longest delay has to be a multiple of 16?
By the way, running transpile instead of execute results in circuits that make sense.
Just as a reference the transpiled circuits are in dt, e.g.
