** For notes from meeting see comment below**
Let's get together for a pyEPR working group meeting.
As pyEPR is growing a lot and being used by many labs and companies globally, it would be great to meet and chat about the future of pyEPR.
Also, had a great chat with Unitary Fund (unitary.fund) about pyEPR for quantum design, so some folks from there may join us as well.
I can't seem to tag too many people, so may have to help spread the word.
DATES (will send doodle poll):
Planning on: October 1-3 or October 8-10.
Once you sign up in the link above and we set the time, I will send out email to set time and date.
Will try to pick time for US and Europe timezones (any others I am missing?)?
You can also e-mail me here zlatko-minev.com
Sounds cool! Been a while since I contributed, should get back on it 😄 I'll look around the code to see what  I think should be changed
Hi everyone,
I would be glad to discuss with you guys. For the next 2 weeks, I will be on vacation but after that I'm fairly available.
Best,
Raphaël
Great to hear, @DanielCohenHillel  and @rlescanne  (@leghtas). I have a few more responses in my inbox. Let's plan something out for a month to two months from now, how about mid-late Sept.? or can do second half of Oct. Let me know if you have any preferences. Would e-mail or here be best to organize?
Mid-late september works for me !
Hi @zlatko-minev ! It would be great to discuss, sure mid-late September works for me too.
@zlatko-minev I would love to come along and listen!
Any updates regarding the date of the meeting?
Hey @zlatko-minev this is Wen-Sen and I was working on the junction-embedded resonator which once used pyEPR. I'd love to sit in and listen if there's a remote meeting as well. Thanks!
Thank you everyone, very much appreciate your replies here on this. Would you mind filling out this short form?  I will use the contact there send out the invite
https://forms.gle/g6nq3PaqP9835zDa6

Updated link: ‼️ ‼️ MEETING SIGNUP -- Click link HERE ‼️ ‼️
Filled the scheduled meeting form as we discussed
Glad to participate from the Unitary Fund side.
Thrilled by the many folks already signed up for #pyEPR working group meeting we are hosting -- 91!!  We may even have every content covered here.
Thank you everyone for spreading the word and singing up!
#quantumcomputing physics

Excited to share the notes from the first #pyEPR working group meeting! We had between 30 and 40 folks on the call and stayed for an extra half hour, so thank you everyone for being great!
NOTES: 2020-10 pyEPR Working Group Meeting 1 - Minev.pdf
We will host another meeting in the next ~1-2 months and can focus more to let folks present what they have done.
Key screenshots:




