When doing a variational calculation, I would expect the energy predicted by the VQE to be greater than or equal to the actual ground state energy (variational principle).
I am attempting to do a variational calculation with the VQE example code in the ACQUA tutorials using the local_qasm_simulator. I have slightly modified the file to make input easier, but none of the functionality is changed. I am using a Hamiltonian with ground state energy 0.54, but received a VQE prediction of the energy as 0.12, which is clearly less than the ground state.
It is possible that I do not completely understand how  is calculated in the simulator (I am relatively new to quantum computing) and that the behavior I have seen is not unexpected, but if so then how can this be claimed to be a variational calculation? I would imagine the error (if there is one) is in the calculation of the expectation value (in that  is not actually directly calculated, as this would guarantee a higher value by the variational principle), but I cannot speculate any further than that.
I have attached the file containing the Hamiltonian I used (anharmonic_osc.txt) and my code (vqe_error.txt - just change the filename to .py). Within the vqe_error.txt file, I have included my output from when I received the error. All inputs were as assigned in vqe_error.txt. Running this file should reproduce the error with some probability, but it might be best to simply work with the outputs I received after running it (outputs are included at the bottom in a comment, including the optimal parameter values returned; running the file takes ~12.4 minutes).
anharmonic_osc.txt
vqe_error.txt
I am relatively new to quantum computing, so I might be misinterpreting this and it might not be an unexpected output. However, it is troubling that a variational calculation can potentially yield an answer below the actual ground state, since that defeats the purpose of the variational calculation.
Thank you for taking the time to help.
hi,
I noticed that you were using SPSA, which could produce the value lower than the actual value.
The reason is like this:
SPSA requires multiple shots for the measurement, which could introduce the measurement error.
If you run VQE with local_qiskit_simulator, it runs only 1 shot and you will not observe any exception like the above one.
Hello,
Thank you for your response. I have few questions about it: 1.) Do you mean the local_statevector_simulator? When trying to use the local_qiskit_simulator, I receive an error stating that this backend is not available for the VQE algorithm. 2.) So I would not expect this error with any other optimizer (eg L_BFGS_B)? And thus, I should just never use SPSA with VQE? 3.) This can't actually be claimed to be a variational calculation with SPSA, then, right? Because that feature of SPSA defeats the purpose of doing a variational calculation in the first place.
hi, for (1), yes, you are right. for (2) and (3), it is more subtle.
In the multiple shots experiments we did, only SPSA can get close enough to the actual value, the other optimizers cannot. The only issue with SPSA is that it may get some value lower than the actual value. You can mitigate the error by increasing the number of shots.  In general, the error is proportional to 1/sqrt(shots). Larger number of shots leads to lower error.
More details can be found in section V of this paper: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1704.05018.pdf
Thank you for all your help. So if I am understanding you and the paper correctly, the value that SPSA returns is a measurement for Expectation(H), not the actual value of Expectation(H), and thus it is not bounded by the actual energy?
@qcomputer11 yes, the value returned by SPSA is not strictly higher than the actual value, but it is close enough to the actual value if you have sufficiently large number of shots.
