Using 2.0 on windows I get the following error when trying to start the dashboard or the browser,
Looking at the conda env,
I didn't have this problem with my installation on 13/09 which uses the same version of qt so I'm not sure what changed.
Is this just an error in my installation or do you see this also? This is what I have installed from 13/09
Downgrade icu to what we have.
We'll need to pin it.
Works fine on win7-experimental. @r-srinivas can you try with a freshly installed conda?
Downgrading icu seems to fix it. If I try installing it it seems to install a higher version of icu from outside the m-labs channel for some reason.
a higher version of icu from outside the m-labs channel
Where from exactly?
I'm not sure. It's a little strange. I've specified the channel to install from and if I try to install only icu it's fine,
But if I try to install artiq it tries to grab the higher version
Hi there,
I had exactly the same problem. Conda was installed two months ago (windows 7, 64bit). The artiq 1.3 gui was running. Now I upgraded to artiq 2.0, but the dashboard could not be opened. Threre was also icu 57.1 installed from [vc14].
conda_artiq_list.txt
After down grading icu to 56.1 the dashboard works.
Thanks!
Ah, I wish I had come across this earlier. I just came across this issue setting up a fresh conda environment (based on artiq-kc705-nist_clock) off the main channel. For the record, re-installing pyqt from pip also seems to fix the issue.
m-labs/conda-recipes@77efaef
This seemed to happen when I installed artiq 3.0 as well.
I ran into this trying to install artiq py_820+gitf4ae166. Also, it seems like the alabaster dependency was removed? At least I had to install that manually anyway.
I now also have this issue on several different machines with Artiq 2.2. Downgrading to icu 56.1 does not solve this, neither does re-installing pyqt from pip. Any suggestions?
@r-srinivas @cjbe pretty sure you guys have a different issue. Please file a new one and provide information about what you have installed (context), what you did, and what your problem is (symptoms).
