Currently we are missing a serialization format for pulse schedule, and this is necessary for the calibration module in qiskit experiments. However implementation is not straightforward.
Still under (relatively) active development
For example, we are trying to upgrade definition of channel with Support frames using signals #5977 . This PR can change the program representation. This means we need to pay a lot of effort for backward compatibility in serialization/deserialization logic.
Subroutine support
Schedule programs support Call instruction, which is one of schedule instructions but refers to another program defined outside the scope of current program, i.e. subroutine (in the current implementation the instruction just entirely copies the subroutine, thus it just looks like a nested program). If we support such data structure, the serialization logic could become complicated.
Regarding the point 1, I've tried to unify the Schedule and ScheduleBlock by allowing the block to take an instruction time t0 (kind of soft scheduling) in #6444 . Eventually we can deprecate Schedule with this approach, but currently the pros/cons of this attempt is not well discussed.
One thing we can do at least for calibrations (maybe not a good idea for standalone schedules) while the pulse api is finalized is to just leverage qobj. We can serialize the calibrartion schedules to qobj (without a backend set) and then embed that as a utf8 string in the calibrations field for a circuit. (we could also probably make some tweaks via the json encoder class for low hanging fruit changes to the serialization of numpy arrays and things which we couldn't do in qobj for real because it breaks the API schema). The only downside with this approach is we have to continue to support the qobj disassemble path in perpetuity then for backwards compatibility. Not necessarily as a public api but just being able to go from pulse qobj embedded in a qpy to pulse Schedule*.
Thank you Matthew for the advice. The assemble/disassemble only support Schedule, however, the calibration needs ScheduleBlock to keep the duration parametrized. This means we need to write serializer almost from scratch. In addition, the serialized data are planned to be stored in the remote database, so we cannot easily switch to new representation. So we are trying to use something much stable and easy to add a logic for backward compatibility (at least code version management).
For now this is not high priority (in the first product we can keep the template schedules in the codebase and only retrieve parameters from the database), but eventually we need to support arbitrary user provided schedules. So implementation of stable serialization format is still important issue to us.
Hi folks, cc @nathanearnestnoble. We (cc @richrines1 @vtomole) noticed an issue with attempting to qpy-serialize a circuit that contains calibrations. Basically, circuit calibrations are lost in the process of qpy serialization:

I'm guessing that enabling qpy serialization for pulse schedules (i.e. solving this issue) would fix the problem? If not, let me know and I'll make a new issue.
-Pranav
P.S. Code snippet to reproduce:
Yeah, not preserving calibrations is a limitation with qpy currently, this is the tracking issue for it. To be able to serialize calibrations we need to have a representation for a pulse schedule. Once that exists preserving the calibrations should be trivial.
This isn't closed yet, #7300 is needed before this is done.
