Hello again. Since these are very simple and related issues I will adress them in a single post.
1) Adding control over plotted line width
When we create a Bloch sphere with b = Bloch() and add points, pnts_list, to it with b.add_points(pnts_list, meth = 'l') we can use this handy meth parameter to instead of plotting points (which corresponds to the value  's' and looks like this) connect them with line segments (which corresponds to the value  'l' and looks like this).
We can control de size of the points with b.point_size but we can't do it for lines (when meth = 'l' is been used). It would be nice to have that option, to allow control over the width of the lines plotted just like with points. In that way we could prevent it to be confused with the frame of the bloch sphere in a black and white image.
Maybe a good way of solving this would be to use the value of b.point_size for that. Or maybe a better option would be to have a new b.line_size parameter to allow for different sizes between points and lines (which makes everything more customizable).
2) Adding styles for markers and lines for plotting
In the code for the add_points function it is written that
First of all, it is not true that meth = 'l' gives points connected by lines (which in pyplot would be done with the linestyle='-' and marker='o' parameters) but it gives lines without the point markers (linestyle='-' and marker='None' in pyplot). But this is not important since it is just a comment on a function.
The thing that matters is that it would be great if we had a b.linestyle and b.marker methods for the Bloch sphere instead of a meth parameter which can only show either points or lines without them, just like/similar to the line styles and marker styles of pyplot. Or any other idea that could allow the user to create more complicated graphs on the Bloch sphere.
3) Adding edge color parameter for plotted points
The b.point_color method changes the color of the points but it doen't change the edge color of those marker points. This is important since right now one can only choose between two restrictive options; either we plot the points with large sizes (like in this image) so the chosen color can be seen, or we have to see the dots as black points if we chose a smaller size for them (like in thsi image). What I mean is that if I want to plot small points in red I just can't do it, since the black edge will dominate.
Just like in pyplot, it would be good to have an option to toggle the edge or choose the edge color. Or if that is too complicated, maybe you could make the marker edge color the same as b.point_color.
