 I would like the default to have a color similar to the IBM Q experience. Could we set that by default and add white as optional one.
  The initial |0> @ajavadia and I talked and think that unless the qubit has been reset/initialize that we should drop the |0>. This way a circuit can be a sub circuit.

 The q  need to be bigger  and too much whitespace between them and the start of the circuit.
 too much white space in measurements. Also measurements need to have a little z next to them.









A couple of these will be fixed by #2203
As for the barrier one, that's actually a drawing style thing (which we probably should change because it's not the first time this has been confused, see #1870 ) The grey shading doesn't show which qubits have the barrier, that's the dashed line.
Yeah I know. I think we just get rid of dash and use grey shading.
I'm not able to reproduce the alignment issue for the fredkin gate there. Running on current master I printed out a swap, cnot, toffoli, and fredkin and they all seemed to be aligned properly for me:

(ignore the gray shaded rectangles I was also experimenting with updating how we draw barriers, it's not finished yet)
@jaygambetta what code did you use to make that image with the misalignment so I can try to reproduce it.
I also see a misalignment of control gates here and there.


Interestingly though, if you output the circuit (png, pdf, etc) then the alignment is correct.  This might be a rasterization issue with how it is presented on the screen.
Actually I modify my last comment.  The PDF output is exactly centered, the png output is a bit off, but it is not the control line, but the circle that is off in that case.  I am sure this is a rasterization issue, since the vectored pdf version is unaffected.
The initial |0> @ajavadia and I talked and think that unless the qubit has been reset/initialize that we should drop the |0>. This way a circuit can be a sub circuit.
Also for the other drawers?
@1ucian0 this is fixed now and should be closed but we do need to make a new issue for the other drawers
