Gate errors are one of the major sources of noise in quantum circuits and can be classified in two groups: Coherent and incoherent errors. Coherent errors occur due to some miscalibration of circuit parameters and do not destroy the state purity. This can be a serious problem since similar errors occur in consecutive executions leading to a bias. It is easier to handle incoherent errors using what is known as randomized compiling (RC). We can convert coherent errors to incoherent errors by introducing a set of randomizing single qubit gates.
Mitiq is missing this mitigation technique.
Adding randomized_compiling  function implementing RC.
Rosenberg, E., Ginsparg, P. and McMahon, P.L., (2021). Experimental error mitigation using linear rescaling for variational quantum eigensolving with up to 20 qubits. arXiv:2106.01264.
Urbanek M., Nachman B., Pascuzzi V.R., He A., Bauer C.W., de Jong W.A., (2021). Mitigating depolarizing noise on quantum computers with noise estimation circuits. arXiv:2103.08591
Wallman J.J., (2016) Noise tailoring for scalable quantum computation via randomized compiling.  arXiv:1512.01098
Hello @tozbilgin, thank you for your interest in Mitiq!
If this is a bug report, please provide screenshots and/or minimum viable code to reproduce your issue, so we can do our best to help get it fixed. If you have any questions in the meantime, you can also ask us on the Unitary Fund Discord.
Thanks @tozbilgin! Randomized compiling is indeed a very interesting technique. It is in our wish list even if not
explicitly planned for the 2022 roadmap (https://github.com/unitaryfund/mitiq/wiki#mitiq-2022-roadmap).
Anyone interested is welcome to write an RFC for planning the addition of randomized compiling to Mitiq. You can find similar documents that we did for other techniques at this link.
@tozbilgin just FYI in case you haven't seen we recently added some functionality in this direction in #1774. It's a rather simplified take on full randomized compiling, but it's a start. If you have any comments let us know!
