Hi Tried, I tried running the below code from your Deush Josza algorithm:
I am getting the below error:
Please guide me how to correct this Error?
It looks like you are running this from a local directory ... Pytorch_Study_Workspace\Benchmark_dj
This .py file will not run in isolation.  It requires the __common directory to reside in parallel as it imports files from _common to manage job execution and collect/plot metrics. It was done this way to avoid having to create and install a "benchmark support package".
The best way to run these benchmarks is in the top-level directory of the QC-App-Oriented-Benchmarks repository, using the Jupyter notebook benchmarks-qiskit.ipynb, as described in the README.  This notebook executes all the benchmarks if you do a "Run All".
Alternatively, you can execute each benchmark in its respective subdirectory, e.g qiskit/deutsch-jozsa with a simple python dj_benchmark.py.
Please let us know if you get past this Issue so that it can be resolved.
I added the commons directory in the project. Getting the below result.

The directory structure of my project looks like as below:

I hope this is the expected result.
I only have the access to the Qasm simulator.
Yes that looks correct.
Using the simulator, the circuit creation and execution time is very small, the fidelity of execution is high (~1.0) and the circuit depth is relatively constant (for DJ).
However, there should be another plot that gets produced, the volumetric plot showing the circuit profile.
Try the other benchmarks, you will see more interesting results (DJ is very limited in what it does).  Best way to run is in the Jupyter notebook that is at the top level, where everything is configured to run all the benchmarks. (note that it has the extension .template which you need to remove when you copy the file).
You can also reference the READM at top level and this paper for more info:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.03137
I will leave this Issue open for a little longer.  Please feel free to ask additional questions here.
I'll close this Issue once you let me know you have a good handle on things.
Closing this issue for now
Closing for now, as new issue created for new issues
