https://www.cp2k.org/download lists docker as one of the installation routes, but the link leads to a DockerHub organisation with no repositories:

Yes, I removed the images from DockerHub because they were violating the GPL.
While I managed to solve the licensing issue of the toolchain, I have not yet gotten around to create new images.
Part of why I'm giving this low priority is that I currently don't see a real use case. Most HPC systems have GPUs these days, but we can't include Cuda due to the GPL. And most researchers can't run Docker on their workstation because it requires root permissions.
How did you intent to use the images?
Part of why I'm giving this low priority is that I currently don't see a real use case. Most HPC systems have GPUs these days, but we can't include Cuda due to the GPL. And most researchers can't run Docker on their workstation because it requires root permissions.
Singularity, Podman and others are pointing towards root-less (and daemon-less) containerization, so not being root is only a problem when using Docker.
As for CUDA: since the CUDA libraries are required to be able to access the hardware they are usually considered a system-dependencies (like a libc, or a kernel) and can therefore be linked against in a GPL program under the "system library exception" (part of GPLv2/v3).
How did you intent to use the images?
My use case was to quickly get a cp2k binary on MacOS for testing purposes.
The brew route first compiles gcc which takes forever... I've started looking into adding a conda build for MacOS conda-forge/cp2k-feedstock#7
since the CUDA libraries are required to be able to access the hardware they are usually considered a system-dependencies
Last time I chatted with Nvidia folks I got the impression that this is not the case.
but for teaching and workshops an easy to deploy container would be a very good thing.
Fair enough. I'll have another look after the 8.1 release is out.
Singularity would be a nice choice.
Singularity would be a nice choice.
I would suggest keeping docker containers on dockerhub (singularity hub solutions are several limitations). Singularity can directly pull docker containers and use them...
Done: https://hub.docker.com/r/cp2k/cp2k.
