Installing qutip with pip on Python 3.11 fails at the "Getting the requirements to build the wheel" stage.
Potentially related to these changes in packaging, introduced in the latest update to 22.0.
Should install qutip without errors.
I explicitly mention Python 3.11 because I failed to replicate the issue on a fresh Python 3.10 environment.
EDIT: Looking deeper into the qutip built distributions, the reason why this is failing only for Python 3.11 is because earlier versions of Python have built distributions, unlike Python 3.11.
This indicates that building the wheel from source is generally broken, which I confirmed by forcing an installation from source on Python 3.10 with
Thanks for reporting this. The new version of packaging removed LegacyVersion. They deprecated constructing LegacyVersion for two years, but not doing the right thing and raising an error on LegacyVersion ourselves (which we do). So we'll have to remove our check and release 4.7.1 to fix this.
It doesn't fail on Python 3.10 and below,  because there are pre-built wheels for those Pythons. Python 3.11 wasn't released when 4.7.0 came out, so there aren't prebuilt wheels for that.
This also affects qutip-qip and other family packages that inherited the qutip setup.py file.
I opened pypa/packaging#631 just to let the packaging team know about this class of breakage.
Thanks for your work on this, @hodgestar . I hope you don't mind me asking: do you have a planned release date for v4.7.1? I just need to know so that I can decide whether I wait for it to be released or if I look for a temporary workaround.
We'll have a new release before Monday, and maybe today.
I'm busy checking builds in #2046, and hopefully once those are running successfully, we can release. It's the usual dance of figuring out which versions of SciPy and numpy to build for.
QuTiP 4.7.1 has been released to PyPI -- https://pypi.org/project/qutip/4.7.1/ -- and pip install qutip now works for me on Python 3.11.
Thank you @hodgestar!
