The pulse spec states that for a drive signal   on a channel with frequency , the value of the channel at a time  is:

and if a phase  is on the channel (e.g. from a ShiftPhase or SetPhase command), it multiplies the signal by , and hence the overall channel value at time  is
.
This does not appear to be what is actually evaluated in the RHS functions in the pulse simulator. First, when constructing the expression , the sign of the exponential appears to be flipped; the  contribution has a positive sign:

Also, at no point does it seem to take the real part of the above expression; this value is somehow used in the function evaluate_hamiltonian_expression, and the output of that function is used in constructing the RHS; with either the original value or complex conjugate being used.
A simple example demonstrating this issue is the following: Consider a 2 level system with Hamiltonian
,
where  is the standard Pauli X operator and  is drive channel 0. We run a pulse using this model with drive channel frequency 0 and a purely imaginary sample pulse . As  is purely imaginary and the channel frequency is 0, we will have  for all time. As a result, regardless of the sample pulse , the state of the system should undergo no change.
However, the following code demonstrates this is not the case in the pulse simulator:
As noted above, we expect the final state to be the same as the initial state, however the resulting state vector is:
i.e. a pi pulse (about some axis) is erroneously occurring.
Some initial testing indicates that the following changes results in the correct expected behaviour:
@taalexander Can you please verify my reading of the complex number, frequency, and phase conventions in the pulse spec (along with my expectation in the above example that the channel value should be 0)? It is fairly plainly written there but I just want extra confirmation due to the importance of this.
I think the main thing I need input on is confirmation of the expected term in the Hamiltonian associated to a drive (or control) signal. My understanding is:
The pulse spec gives (on page 30) that a drive term in the Hamiltonian is of the form:
,
where  is the value of the drive channel at time , and  is the corresponding operator. The channel value is further decomposed as:
,
where  is the complex-valued user supplied signal (which will be a piecewise constant sample pulse), and  is the channel frequency. The pulse spec further gives on page 41 that a FrameChange instruction (now replaced by ShiftPhase and SetPhase), modifies the signal  by a given phase  via multiplication by , and hence if the channel has a phase set  the full channel value decomposes as:
. (*)
@taalexander also pointed out to me that in the more recent programming pulse paper the effect of the phase is actually to multiply by  (a different sign).
I'd like to confirm:
For now:

