The import of a qasm into Qiskit fails. The qasm has been exported with Qiskit from a simple circuit. Gates triggering the errors are QFT and StatePreparation. See below for minimal examples with error messages.
Duplicate gate error with QFT:
qasm:
Duplicate gate error with StatePreparation:
qasm:
Unknown gate error with StatePreparation:
qasm:
Qiskit should be able to reimport the qasm it created. These example circuits contain only unitary gates on qubits.
It seems that qiskit.qasm3 takes more care to use unique gate names when exporting. However, I haven't found an import function for qasm3.
No response
The problem seems to be that the QFT circuit, which is called "QFT", already contains a gate called "QFT". So once you call append on the circuit, it is again converted to a gate and you end up with a gate called "QFT" that contains a gate called "QFT", which the qasm exporter currently doesn't handle.
Another solution than calling decompose would be to avoid wrapping the QFT circuit into a gate again by using compose like
Here's another example that points the problem out:
Thank you, the workaround bypasses the qasm problem with the QFTGate! The errors with StatePreparation however still remain when adding .decompose().
Increasing the applications of decompose, .decompose(reps=3) may bypass this error but may result in the addition of a global phase to the QuantumCircuit object that will not be transmitted through a QASM export/import, eg decomposing a circuit including an RZ will result in a U1 and a corresponding global_phase parameter on the circuit object.
QASM 3 seems to support a global_phase via gphase, but QASM 2 does not, so exporting a decomposed QuantumCircuit obj to QASM 2 and then re-importing will not carry this phase.
The following examples this issue, with the fourth printed matrix differing by a phase factor of $e^{(i \lambda /2)}$ where $\lambda=-1$ as chosen:
The QASM3 exporter does not seem to include a conversion of the QuantumCircuit object parameter global_phase to a QASM3 `gphase', as in:
Also seems that QASM3 circuits cannot be reimported to qiskit. AsQuantumCircuit.from_qasm_str(q3) throws a message of Invalid version: 3.0. This module supports OpenQASM 2.0 only This may need a separate issue.
