Running qiskit.compiler.transpile with routing_method='lookahead' sometimes throws qiskit.transpiler.exceptions.TranspilerError: 'Lookahead failed to find a swap which mapped gates or improved layout score.'
I would expect that the transpiler gives me back the transpiled circuit. It should not terminate with the exception above, after all, basic routing doesn't fail.
Inside the .zip are 3 files, run_me.py, and two example circuits in qasm format.
Examples are from https://www.cda.cit.tum.de/mqtbench/.
Run run_me.py and the exception should occur.
example.zip
Alternatively, download the examples directly by going to https://www.cda.cit.tum.de/mqtbench/, and selecting Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE) , 7 qubits, and Indep.
The downloaded files that I used in the following code is vqe_indep_7.qasm.
When the transpiler runs with the circuit from vqe_indep_7.qasm and the coupling map from FakeCambridgeV2, it will result in the following exception:
qiskit.transpiler.exceptions.TranspilerError: 'Lookahead failed to find a swap which mapped gates or improved layout score.'
This is unexpected since I would expect my circuit to be transpilable on a device with more than twice the number of qubits as the circuit.
The issue seems to be originating in a commit a few years ago:
7d0ba7c
It seems that they add some convoluted control flow in order to prevent hangs, however, it now throws the exception, which has result of no transpiled circuit returned.
Thanks for the report - we've just been seeing similar failures in our randomised test suite, so it's helpful to have a report to help track things down a bit more.
I can't promise this will be a priority, because LookaheadSwap is pretty out-dated and hasn't been looked at in quite a while (it's slow too), but I do want to get to it, probably after the Terra 0.21 release window closes.  Are you able to use routing="sabre" or one of the other routing methods as a workaround for now?  (Sabre in particular should be fast and give good/better results than Lookahead.)
Yes, sabre does work for me. I can use that as a workaround for now, thanks for the advice and the update on the situation!
