👋 trying to build the latest release, but run into some build issue. The error log is as below:
relates to Homebrew/homebrew-core#79124
Thanks for this.
A temporary fix is to remove the OR ... "Darwin" conditions from

@christianpaquin SIKE's ARM64 assembly is missing the leading underscores on function names that are assumed when linking Mach-O objects. We need a fix similar to what's done in the x86-64 code:

ping @christianpaquin
The university does have an unused M1 Mac Mini that I can borrow for a bit. May be a week or two until the right staff are next on campus for me to be able to pick it up. Will update you once I have it.
Ok, thanks for the reminder @jschanck. I'll prepare a PR on the upstream. @patricklonga, FYSA.
Pushed PR 48 on SIKE project; waiting for upstream review before merging here. Although it might be interesting to first test on your device when you get it, @dstebila.
Pushed PR 48 on SIKE project; waiting for upstream review before merging here. Although it might be interesting to first test on your device when you get it, @dstebila.
PR #1042 tests the changes from SIKE's PR 48 into OQS directly (since the only issue with the upstream PR is Makefile related, and we can control how the scheme is built here). I can work on Dougla's Mac Mini to test this, but cmake and ninja are missing on the machine and I'm not sure how to install them; @dstebila, can you help?
PR #1042 tests the changes from SIKE's PR 48 into OQS directly (since the only issue with the upstream PR is Makefile related, and we can control how the scheme is built here). I can work on Dougla's Mac Mini to test this, but cmake and ninja are missing on the machine and I'm not sure how to install them; @dstebila, can you help?
They are installed on my Mac Mini via homebrew. Maybe it's not in your path? The files are in /opt/homebrew/bin.
Tried on the Mac Mini, with changes from PR #1034. Compiles with warnings (same as reported on upstream PR 48 see below), local tests work.
Warnings:
Ah yeah looks like you need a .align 2 directive immediately after the .text on, e.g., line 14 of fp_arm64_asm.S.
Ah yeah looks like you need a .align 2 directive immediately after the .text on, e.g., line 14 of fp_arm64_asm.S.
One question @jschanck : why .align 2 if the warning mentions 4-byte alignment? I tried .align 4 and it also works.
The OS X assembler reference says that ".align n" means "align on a 2^n byte boundary". Looks like there's also ".p2align n" with the same meaning and a less ambiguous name.
OS X assembler reference says that ".align n" means "align on a 2^n byte boundary".
Oh, I see, thanks for the clarification.
