I am playing around with QIBO, and I believe I might have found an issue. In particular, I am applying RY gates to real value wavefunctions, i.e. |0>, and I am obtaining weird superpositions with complex values, which as far as I know, should not happen when applying RY gates.
For instance, RY(np.pi)|0> is delivering [0.04865738-0.21515073j    -0.21515073+0.95134262j] when it should be [0.0   1.0]
Can anyone check? In case is due to something I might be doing wrong. If it's a bug, may be happening as well for the other rotations?
@bpcarlos we are using the following definition http://34.240.99.72/qibo.html#qibo.base.gates.RY. So, I believe you should change theta=np.pi to theta=1, right?
You are right, Stefano.  I got confused, because in the VQE tutorial we define the parameters from 0 to 2*pi, which is is anti-intuitive based on that definition. Should be from 0 to 2 (?).
Still, I think that definition might be "non-friendly" for users that are used to code in other "quantum languages". Maybe tomorrow we can discuss about it.
@bpcarlos, thanks for opening this. Sorry, I did not have time to respond before so I will reopen. As Stefano pointed out the conventions we use for the rotation gates are the ones that appear in the documentation where "theta" is the parameter the user can control. I followed Cirq's conventions for these gates however you might be correct that these might not be the most user-friendly choices, particularly the global phase factor. I would suggest we all agree which conventions are the best to use, either here or in the meeting and we will change this accordingly. It is a very easy fix in terms of code anyway.
Regarding the VQE, you are correct, it should be from 0 to 2. I guess it does not matter much in the optimization because this is just the initialization.
Let's keep this issue open until we fix both these points.
@AdrianPerezSalinas @bpcarlos could you please create another issue explaining the point with the exponential phase we have discussed today?
