Some variables have unintuitive names. Let's collect them here and do a collective renaming some day in the future, when everybody is aware that issues might arise.
I also find it weird that iq are numbered starting from 0 whereas asgs are numbered starting from 1.
That one has historical/implementation reasons. What is more natural? Starting from 0 or from 1?
Not sure, à possibility would be start at 0 and eventually use 0 for
internal use such as network analyser. On the other hand some (mostly
matlab users) would argue that starting at 1 is more intuitive
Le 7 nov. 2016 8:38 PM, "lneuhaus" notifications@github.com a écrit :
That one has historical/implementation reasons. What is more natural?
Starting from 0 or from 1?
—
You are receiving this because you commented.
Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
#40 (comment), or mute
the thread
https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/ACqnOAvUdDacf58g9ZjMiCp0F_Fm0I_wks5q734ggaJpZM4JC9Lo
.
for me its more intuitive to consistently start at 0. but we would have to be consequent and name scope channels by 0 and 1, too, for example. the "internal usage" of network analyzer reminds me that we have not discussed the issue of "blocking a hardware module" recently, I hope you did not forget it in your changes. That is, if you want to avoid conflicts you must implement some access permission system for the hardware modules imo. i think the list system where you pop and append the available modules is not so bad..
OK, concerning the 0 or 1 indexing, I think if we include the scope channels in there, it would be much less error prompt to start at 1 (I don't know any scope that indexes its channels starting from 0)....
Concerning the device stack, I have been thinking about it since your message, and in this case, it should be clear also in the gui that the resource is unavailable. Actually, I still find it useful for debugging and understanding what's going on behind the scene to be able to see the values. What I suggest:
contained in #83
renaming completed
