Hi! I tried to install this package on a Ubuntu machine, but it failed.
System information:
Logs:
I am not sure if they are related, but I am also experiencing an issue with the installation taking a long time. While I am looking into this, can you try the following command and let me know if it resolves your issue:
Hi @edyounis! I tried to run pip install 'bqskit[ext]' several times, and it always couldn't finish. pip gave some warning that it tried to find a compatible solution for all version constraints required by dependent packages, but it seemed hard to do so. I think pip install took a long time because it got stuck in some search algorithms, such as DFS, for different version combinations.
It seems that pip install bqskit can be quickly finished, so could you try to verify this? If it's right, then you can try to install other dependent quantum toolkits one by one to see which one has some problem, I guess.
I tried your command above, but made a modification because libpng16-devtools is not available on my system, so I changed it to libpng-dev according to the tips given by apt. However, I still cannot finish pip install 'bqskit[ext]', as it kept trying multiple versions of the packages.
Thanks for checking the apt command. Yeah, it's a bad interaction between cirq and dask. If you need an immediate fix, you can remove all occurrences of cirq from BQSKit, and it should work fine (unless you use cirq :)).
The proper way to handle this long-term is to redo how the ext subpackage is imported. To import anything from bqskit.ext you must import everything. This is obviously bad and was only meant to be temporary. The right thing to do is not have any of the frameworks installed by pip and when you import something from bqskit.ext check for the specific package. If you find the package, great! Otherwise, we should print a pretty message explaining to the user to install the proper package and how to do it.
It would be greatly appreciated if you could make the change and a PR for this, otherwise, I will fix this in the upcoming 1.0.4 update.
We reworked how the extension packages are imported in the 1.0.4 dev branch and soon-to-be-released 1.0.4 update. This leads to more fine-grained imports, so if you are missing cirq but not qiskit, you can still use the qiskit extension. Due to the above issues, I have removed cirq from the pip ext optional dependency list for now.
As a workaround, I just ran pip install --no-deps and manually installed every missing package. I will try the new version later. Thanks for the instant fix!
This should be fixed in the 1.0.4 release, feel free to re-open if it comes up again
