It has been requested that I add the array_to_latex tool from the textbook package to qiskit. I will need some assistance with how / where is best to add this, as well as bringing to code up to qiskit's standard before I make a pull request.
Here is a link to the tool in its current form.
Thank you!
There is a way to neatly convert numpy arrays (such as the output of .get_statevector() and .get_unitary()) into readable latex.
Example of current output:
Example of array_to_latex output for same matrix:

more usage examples can be found here
Checked code & it works for me, Any help? reviewing or something can do to release such a feature?
I'd like to contribute to Qiskit's development (I owe you!). Since this would be the first time doing that, I feel this issue to be simple enough for starting. So, may I help with this in any way?
Thank you! First of all, where is most appropriate to put the function? In qiskit.visualization? It was suggested I also add it to the latex_repr of the Statevector class. I assume the function should live somewhere else though.
Hi Frank, thank you for the chance! Let me dive into the docs, and see what I can find
I think qiskit.visualization is the best place to put the array_to_latex function, as this is indeed a visualization feature. However, I cannot find the latex_repr of the Statevector class you mentioned. Isn't it enough to put this new (and very nice) feature in the qiskit.visualization?
Hi,
Is there anything I can contribute in it?
regards
Souvik Saha Bhowmik
@souviksbhowmik thanks for your help. Your comment reminded me to do this, you can add any feedback on the thread for #4546
Is this issue this open? Is there anything I can contribute?
@Ananyapam7 you can give feedback on the commit #4546
Hello!
I want to ask two questions. First, what is a precision of an arrays representing a quantum state which has been evolved via quantum circuit in Qiskit. Second, the command array to latex does not output all entries of an array instead it displays few entries with ellipses in between them.  How can we get complete array with precision 10^{-14} (say)?
@MubasharK good questions, I've responded in your issue here.
