Dear Dr. Neuhaus,
Thanks a lot for this wonderful work. It runs well in Windows, but we found that when it runs in Mac, the scope module will be freezed after launching acquisition. If possible, could you please prepare me an executable version in Mac [macOS Sierra 10.12.6]? Thanks.
Hi Greenk,
thanks for this feedback. I have run PyRPL on a mac before and did not see your issue. Within a few days I could prepare a Mac executable (I first need to get my hands on a Mac for that).
However, to attempt finding the origin of this bug, could you provide a few more information about the environment you are running Pyrpl in? E.g.,
Those things would be great, but I will nevertheless try to make a Mac executable for you.
Hi,
Thanks for your prompt response. Here are your required information:
Thank you so much.
Cool, thanks a lot. I could run pyrpl on a mac with python 3.5 before, and not reproduce the bug on a windows machine. To get closer, I nevertheless logged here what I did:
Here, the scope did not freeze on my windows machine. Then i downgraded my PyQt version from 5.6 to 4.11 with
Still working (with qt version 4.11). Then I tried the lowest pyqt installation I could find with conda
Still working. Even though this was only on windows so far, its getting too difficult to build the exact same python installation with all the same library versions, so I'm tempted to giving up on trying to reproduce the error and blame it on an outdated python installation.
Two consequences:
For the next version upgrade, we will add the mac binary to the auto-deploy step (possible in travis, see https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/multi-os/).
Thanks a lot for these help. I think the freezing may be linked to the pyqtgraph, since everything is smooth before clicking the "Run continuous". The same problem also occurs in the spetrumanalyzer module. I just tried to install everything in a newly built python virtual environment, but the issue is still there.  I also notice that after a long time (about several minutes), the scope will eventually show one trace of data, and then freeze again. It seems that it's waiting something.
Cool, finally the problem is solved by a new installation of python from Anaconda (before the python 2.7 is installed from Brew), although I don't know the exact reason. Now I can have some fun to play with it. Thank you again for your hints :)
Nice. Anyways, the MacOS binaries are on their way...
