I used flod_gate_at_random method to generated folded_circuits with scales factors in the following code.
The circuit has 20 gates, including 11 cnots. I executed the folded circuits on an IBM quantum device.
Then, I tried different extrapolation methods. I think the obtained expectation values are reasonable since the result decreases as the circuit depth increases.  However, when I used the RichardsonFactory method, the error rate is always larger than one (I tried several other different circuits using this method) and is way larger than the error rate before mitigation.  Is it normal to have this kind of result? Is this result due to the size of the benchmark or the extrapolation method? I tried other benchmarks and sometimes PolyFactory with order 2 also gives an error rate of more than one.
Hello @peachnuts, thank you for your interest in Mitiq!
If this is a bug report, please provide screenshots and/or minimum viable code to reproduce your issue, so we can do our best to help get it fixed. If you have any questions in the meantime, you can also ask us on the Unitary Fund Discord.
Hi @peachnuts, thanks for this issue.
I think this is not a bug but the expected behavior of the different extrapolation methods.
Linear extrapolation corresponds to a polynomial fit of order=1, while Richardson extrapolation, in this case, corresponds to a polynomial fit of order=len(scale_factors)-1=3.
So your case is a situation in which the extrapolation gets worst as you increase the order of the polynomial fit. This is a typical problem of ZNE and of polynomial fitting in general (see also this note). More insight can be obtained after plotting the results with the following code:


From the plots it is evident that RichardsonFactory is over-fitting your data and producing a bad extrapolation. This phenomenon is usually stronger for large statistical fluctuations of the data and increasing the number of shots can reduce this effect. Anyway, whatever is the precision of your data, there will always be an optimal value of order beyond which bad extrapolations will happen.
Hi Andrea!
Thanks for your explanation and your code snippets! It really helped to solve my questions!
Sorry that I didn't think this is a bug but the bug label was added in default when I created this issue...
