Hi XACC developers,
I'm currently working on a project where I'm trying to print the ansatz circuit for QAOA (at the moment, in xasm format) and get a generic circuit with gamma0, beta0, etc.... I have a set of optimized theta values from QAOA that I'd like to replace with the generic gamma and beta values.
However, the issue is that for a circuit with say 12 optimized theta values, I get 6 generic values in the order of gamma0, beta0, gamma1, beta1, gamma2, beta2 all having two occurrences of each. How do I know, in which order I'm supposed to replace these generic values with the optimized theta values.
Thanks for your patience!
Hi,
The variable/parameter order should be the same as the order that these variables first appear in the circuit printout.
For QAOA, it should be as you saw {gamma0, beta0, gamma1, beta1, gamma2, beta2, etc.}.
Only unique variables are added to the list (repeated variables don't count).
Hope that it helps.
@tnguyen-ornl Thank you for the quick response!
If I'm understanding this right, suppose my optimized theta are {1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0} and I get the corresponding generic values as {gamma0, beta0} (each entry occuring twice). So I just replace the first entry of gamma0 with 1.0, second entry of gamma0 with 2.0, first entry of beta0 with 3.0 and so on?
I don't quite understand the 'optimized theta' array that you're referring to.
If the set of parameters are {gamma0, beta0} then there should only be two double values, e.g. all occurrences of gamma0 in the circuit should be replaced with a single value.
In this example, you should only need an array of size 2, e.g. {1.0, 2.0}, all entries of gamma0 -> 1.0 and all entries of beta0 -> 2.0.
In case you want to parameterize each angle independently, the variable names should be different.
If you have a concrete example in XACC, feel free to share it here as well.
So, using the qaoa implementation in xacc, I'm printing the generic ansatz circuit in xasm format and also the optimized theta values as below:
The question is, which two theta values out of the four should I replace with {gamma0, beta0}.
@tnguyen-ornl btw the above circuit was created using
and I understand that there is a qaoa_ansatz.eval([...]) function which takes in the optimized theta values as arguments and prints out the circuit.
Possibly with that I could interpret the ordering of the angles used in the circuit. However, it's not clear to me about the syntax of the function (couldn't find it while reading the docs). Could you help me with it? Thanks.
Hi,
In XACC, in order to get the parameterized QAOA ansatz circuit, you can use createComposite('qaoa') and expand it with appropriate parameters.
Looking at your example circuit, I think the Hamiltonian is equivalent to -0.5 Z0 + Z0Z1. So this is an example of using QAOA in the 'Standard' and 'Extend' mode:
The number of parameters returns by the algorithm must match that of the circuit.
I think you may have mixed different modes of QAOA which have a different number of variational parameters.
@tnguyen-ornl Thank you for the example codes! I ran the 'Extend' parameter-scheme code and got an output like this:
So, in the actual circuit, is it safe to say that I replace 2.728 with gamma0, 0.785 with gamma1, 1.569 with beta0 and 0.783 with beta1?
