When I compile a specific circuit by quil_to_native_quil, the following error is returned. What is the meaning of this error?
This appears to be very specific to the layout of the circuit. Removing or adding any gate to the circuit allows the circuit to be compiled without error.
PS: I am on qvm 1.60, quilc 1.60, pyquil 2.60.
This is also the error that appears here: quil-lang/quilc#196 . Unclear what the root cause is, but it's being tracked & will be investigated soon.
The literal meaning of the error is that MAGICL was asked to calculate the kernel of a matrix that was supposed to be guaranteed to be singular (i.e., the dimension of the kernel is positive), but it turned out to be nonsingular (i.e., the dimension of the kernel is zero). This is only the secondary cause of death, though; the real culprit is whatever is illegally producing nonsingular matrices.
Thanks for the quick reply. I am looking forward to the update of the investigation.
Maybe the least we can do is make an error message better.
@andyliphys If you're able to build quilc from source, give it another try and see if the above-mentioned PR solved your problem. If not, try it again after the 1.7.0 release. I hope this solves it!
I have built quilc 1.7.0 and qvm 1.7.0. Unfortunately, I get the same error.
As a side note, I have tried to compile the same circuit on macOS with the pre-build quilc 1.6.0 and qvm 1.6.0. The circuit is compiled without any issue. At the same it doesn't work on the pre-build linux deb version. It seems to be pretty tricky...
Bummer :( The fickleness you’re describing is characteristic of numerical stability bugs, so there’s no surprise there.
Would you be willing to share an offending circuit? Either attaching it to this thread or, if you don’t want it in the public eye, sending an example to me by email at eric@rigetti.com would both be a huge help. If I can’t reproduce it locally from that (e.g., if our LAPACK variants treat the circuit differently), then since you’re able to build from source I can describe a more invasive procedure that’ll grab the state just before the crash.
Any amount of bad data you’re willing to provide would be hugely appreciated.
Thanks. I just send the pyquil circuit through email. Hopefully, it helps you figuring out the root of the problem.
ping @stylewarning
We're going to close this for now, as after a considerable email exchange we were unable to reproduce the problem locally. If anyone else is able to reproduce this failure or comes across this in some other context, feel free to re-open and ping me.
