Hi,
I am trying to implement a very simple code on strawberry fields on Spyder python 3.7:
'''import strawberryfields as sf
from strawberryfields.ops import *
import numpy as np
from numpy import pi, sqrt
prog = sf.Program(3)'''
However even this simple code returns the following code:
'''ImportError: cannot import name 'List' from 'numba.typed' (//anaconda3/lib/python3.7/site-packages/numba/typed/init.py)'''
What is this issue? I think I might have the wrong numba installed or something. However I get the same error on jupyter notebook.
Hi @LorcanConlon! What version of Numba do you currently have installed? Could you try upgrading your Numba installation?
I have the most recent version of Numba I think, as I ran pip3 install numba
Hi @LorcanConlon, could you post the output of running sf.about() from the Python interpretor or jupyter cell, as well as the result of running pip freeze from the terminal (same environment you used to launch this code)?
Hi, the result of running pip freeze:
And from running sf.about():
I really appreciate this help :)
Hi @LorcanConlon,
It appears the version of numba that you have (==0.44.1) is lower than that required by Strawberry Fields (==0.48.0). Could you try pip install numba==0.48.0 or pip install --upgrade numba and see if that fixes the problem?
I think this might be the issue. I cannot upgrade my numba. I get the following error:
And after running
I get the following error:
I notice from your pip freeze output that you've got quite a lot of packages installed in your python environment. I'm not surprised there are some clashes with such a big list 😄
One suggestion would be to use anaconda or virtualenv to create a separate clean environment for, e.g., Strawberry Fields and its requirements there.
So I cleaned up what I have installed so that pip freeze returns
However I now cannot even install strawberry fields. Attempting to install SF gives a very long error message. Do you know what dependencies SF has?
Hi so I fixed the issue, leaving this here in case anyone else has the same issue. The problem was that I couldn't install thewalrus with python 3.9. I think the two are incompatible. So I created a new virtual environment using python 3.7. This allows thewalrus to be installed which then allows strawberry fields to be installed.
Thanks for all the help!
Glad to see that you got it working @LorcanConlon! Supporting Python 3.9 for The Walrus is a priority of ours, and we're working on having that available within the next few weeks
