Current example codes in README prints deprecation warnings and does not work.
We need to update the code.
Hi @hhorii ,i would like to work on this assign me please
@hhorii Can I work on this task as well?
Will any available backend do? My PR uses ibmq_manila since it's the only 5-qubit free system that's a Falcon r5.11L.
Also, this PR was submitted as part of Unitary Fund's Unitary Hack event. If my PR is accepted, please assign me to the issue so the event's bots could associate me with this issue. Thank you :-)
Hi @hhorii, My PR 1831 fixed the problem first, 5 hours earlier than another PR 1832. If my PR is accepted, the Unitary Hackthon bounty should be mine first. This is my first PR and I did not know that I had to mention issue #1806 in my PR. Thanks.
Sorry, @davidlearn I hadn't seen your PR since the issue wasn't linked. I was not trying to ruffle any feathers - I just thought it was still an unsolved issue.
That is my first PR to fix an issue. What is the normal way to link a PR to an issue?
@andre-a-alves It is OK. Hope that we closed the issue. There must be a better way to update all examples when a new release affect certain functions.
That is my first PR to fix an issue. What is the normal way to link a PR to an issue?
You just need to include the issue number after a hashtag in the PR description or a comment. I think the clearest way is to say "closes," "fixes," or "addresses" as well. So, for example, in my PR for this issue, I included "Closes #1806". That links the PR to the issue and lets the reviewer know what the PR is for.
PR #1831  fixed #1806 using FakeManilaV2 fake backend.
@hhorii please ensure this issue (and all other unitaryHACK issues) are assigned to the hacker who should receive the bounty upon closing. Looks to be @davidlearn in this case.
Please assign this issue to me as required by unitaryHack organizers to keep track of who won the bounty. unitaryHack also has a leading board for all hackers who closes issues. Thank you.
@1ucian0, please help with assigning the closed UnitrayHack issue to me. Many thanks.
