Hello,
I did compile CP2K 9.1 with the intel compiler 2021 (see below) and I'm trying to run the example optimization.
However, after some optimization steps (and many converged SCF), the program failed with a strange error:
Complete log available here: H2O.log. It seems that for some reason, the SCF drift away. And there is more: the energy for this last SCF step (the one before the error) is not the same if I run the program twice. Finally, if I use 4 MPI process, the same error happens, but in the first optimization step (see H2O_mpirun.log).
This behavior is quite strange, and an issue with intel MPI is also possible. Would you recommend a test with GCC, or is there something else at work here?
Update
I did an extensive set of tests, combining different compilers (gcc and intel), two different supercomputers (both with AMD processors) and a different amount of mpi process. My conclusion is that the issue is due to the PULAY mixing, which always fails at some point with the error reported above. However,
Using the default (DIRECT_P_MIXING) fixes all the issues: all outputs are consistent and the run finish correctly to a geometry close to the sample output given on the howto page (given that the version of CP2K are different, that should be ok).
PS: if you are interested, there are the info for the compilers:
I also encountered this problem, but it has been solved now. This is indeed caused by pulay mixing. Precisely the parameters are not appropriate. The larger ALPHA and NBUFFER, the more likely it is to cause this error. So just turn downALPHA and NBUFFER  and it will work.
Thanks :)
Please note that this is an unchanged input from the example provided on the WIKI. It would be nice to add a note on that on the page or change the input accordingly.
It would be nice to add a note on that on the page or change the input accordingly.
If you send me an email at ole.schuett@cp2k.org, I'll create you an account for the wiki. Alternatively, just post the diff here and I'll update the page.
I've added a note to the wiki page.
Perfect, thanks :)
