Covalent server returns HTTP 500 Internal Server Error when submitting a workflow, even while
other workflows can be submitted.
This is a rare event that occurs when a batch of workflows on the order of ~10-20 jobs have been submitted to the Covalent server and a new workflow is submitted in succession.
Covalent server should consistently be able to pick up submitted/resubmitted workflows and return useful debugging information that may arise from exceptions or validation errors.
No response
I'm testing using Locust.  Some errors that I see come up with high load are these:
For 2 and 5, please link to the issues that are tracking these fixes.
For 3 and 4, are these things that can be fixed? Do we have a plan for them?
for 2 and 5 I want to come back to them after the switch to FastAPI, and after the db changes are integrated with the front-end.
for 3 and 4, they only occur when I'm testing using >500 users on my machine.
Feedback from @venkatBala :
database is locked is caused by multiple threads attempting to write to the DB concurrently. These may need to be queued. Another option may be to use a DB that is designed for high load RW like Postgres instead of SQLite.
One convincing theory from @venkatBala is that @wjcunningham7 sees the errors at ~500 workflows and @Emmanuel289 sees the errors at ~20 workflows because @wjcunningham7 server has much better specs. In order to close this we need to decide what threshold of of workflows must be supported on what type of machine, and ensure that it will run without error.
@scottwn I think we should publish expected behavior for standard user configs, e.g., 4cores/8GB, 8cores/16GB for now.  Would also be nice to identify the minimal specs to run Covalent as 1 user.  We can use VMs to test whether these errors appear on these servers for certain workloads, e.g., X concurrent users with 1 workflow, or batches of Y workflows from 1 user.  Ideal output is a few configurations for using Covalent that we can add to the docs.
CC @santoshkumarradha
I did a retrial on my 8-core, 32GB mac with Covalent v135.0,  dispatching up to 27 jobs in succession with workflows containing O(100) electrons and I did not get the original 500 error. However, the UI froze indefinitely and the db became locked.
Cc @scottwn @wjcunningham7 @venkatBala
Does this still happen?
