I want run project using GPU,but after
cmake -DCMAKE_C_FLAGS=-std=c99 -DMULTITHREADED=OFF -DDISTRIBUTED=OFF -DGPUACCELERATED=ON -DGPU_COMPUTE_CAPABILITY=70 ..
make
it shows

then I compared the content of  QuEST/CMakeFiles/QuEST.dir/src/GPU/ with a normal project in my another machine, I find this one lack a file named "QuEST_generated_QuEST_gpu.cu.o.cmake.pre-gen" comparing the normal one after cmake.
I don't konw whether I did some steps wrong, if someone met this problem too and solved it, please help me, thank you.
Hi,
Apologies for the delay!
The error about the missing missing "generated" files are just a result of compiling failing due to your first error, that is
Your build commands work fine on my system (gcc 6.5, nvcc 9.1).
Can you please tell me your compiler and cmake versions (or just show me the full output of your commands)?
Does the following work (you can paste the whole thing in to terminal):
ssing missing "generated" files are just a result of compiling failing due to your first error, that is
Hi!
Very thanks for your reply!
gcc  version 5.4.0,cmake version 3.5.1
I user you commands in the machine,and there is still something wrong:

Hi,
Without seeing your full CMake output, I can only speculate at the problem.
Are you able to compile using the example makefile directly?
In the root folder for QuEST (the directory within which you'll see the examples direc), try:
where  is a space-separated list of your source files (without file extensions).
If successful, this will make a myapp executable. Does this work?
Hi,
Without seeing your full CMake output, I can only speculate at the problem.
Are you able to compile using the example makefile directly?
In the root folder for QuEST (the directory within which you'll see the examples direc), try:
where is a space-separated list of your source files (without file extensions).
If successful, this will make a myapp executable. Does this work?
I try again, but still have some problem like last photo I post.
I will run this in my the other machine which can run normally.
I really appreciate your help!
