Is it possible to specify a circuit with no hadamard layers at the beginning/end?
I'm trying to run this example. Here the files I'm using:
If I run:
I get the wrong answer:
If I use depth 2 (-d 2) I get this error:
Not sure what's happening. Thanks for checking!
There is currently an implicit assumption that the first layer is always composed of Hadamards - this is likely an artifact of the type of tests qFlex was originally used for, and should be removed. (The same applies to the last layer as well.)
The first invocation likely gets the wrong answer because the SUPER_CYCLE_DEPTH is hard-coded to 8, so there's an extra set of Hadamards being appended in cycle 9.
I'm less certain about the second invocation, but it's probably failing because it doesn't have anything in the second "super-cycle" (cycles 9-16) - the current indices only have first-cycle indices (x, y, 0), while the reordering also has second-cycle indices (x, y, 1).
The first invocation likely gets the wrong answer because the SUPER_CYCLE_DEPTH is hard-coded to 8, so there's an extra set of Hadamards being appended in cycle 9.
I see. This makes qFlex a bit less usable because other layouts may have different SUPER_CYCLE_DEPTHs. For future releases, we should drop the concept of SUPER_CYCLE_DEPTH.
My understanding is that qFlex requires a complete layer of two-qubits gate for each super cycle (and it wants at least two super cycles). We should specify this on the documentation.
My understanding is that qFlex requires a complete layer of two-qubits gate for each super cycle (and it wants at least two super cycles). We should specify this on the documentation.
Sorry, I misunderstood the error. The issue is due to your circuit file requesting two CZ gates on qubit '0' during cycle 2 - this code only allows one gate per qubit per cycle. This adjustment should fix the issue:
We should update the code here to return an error if it tries to add a gate to a qubit that already has a gate for that cycle. (qFlex does not require each super-cycle to be fully-populated with 2-qubit gates - that was my misunderstanding.)
@95-martin-orion are you working on this or did you want me to take care of it.
If you don't mind, it would be great if you could implement this check. Thanks!
Reassigned to clarify intent. Thanks Alan!
