Hi all,
I'm getting to the point where I have enough of a developers' guide written, and we should start thinking about how and where to merge it in.  It's currently hosted on my account at jakelishman/qutip-devguide, with a rendered version at https://jakelishman.github.io/qutip-devguide.
The section on the data layer hopefully gives quite a lot of detail on why the data layer exists, how it works, and how it's implemented.  The whole data layer is still in alpha (check out the dev.major branch if you want to play with it, and the rest of what will become QuTiP 5.0), so some of the text will need to change, but hopefully it's now enough that if I get hit by a bus tomorrow, the work isn't incomprehensible.
Any suggestions on parts to expand are welcome - either leave them in this issue, or make issues/PRs against my repository for the time being (until it's merged somewhere under QuTiP control).  Clearly the documentation and notebooks sections aren't written yet, and at some point I'll migrate the packaging and distribution instructions into the dev guide too.
Hi Jake,
Thank you for the guide, quite complete. If you have time, an explanation on what can be found where (core vs core.data etc.) could be nice.
I believe we decided to move all the documentation to this repository. @nathanshammah should the devguide go in a docs folder here?
Thank you @jakelishman, this is great. Fantastic effort and result!
@Ericgig, sorry, just to rememeber: we decided to fold the repo qutip-doc into a docs folder here in qutip/qutip? I was in favor of it but lost track of what we agreed upon.
In any case, in my opinion this could go with the rest of the documentation. From the user's perspective, it could be an additional element in the menu tab on the left of this html page, http://qutip.org/docs/latest/index.html. It would be on par with the Users Guide and the API doc, and more visible for the usual documentation reader. Another option would be to have it linked in the website at the top level, next to User Guide (which actually prompts to the whole documentation history page) and Tutorials, but I feel that there it may go much more unnoticed.
It seems to be good practice to have a CONTRIBUTING.md file in this repo, it could point to that bundle of information. We have that file indeed in qutip-doc.
@Ericgig: (about package organisation) sure, sounds like a good idea.  I'll add a section when I've got some time.
@nathanshammah: Happy to merge it in anywhere, but I've not done much with the qutip-doc repo so far, so it might be better if someone else handles the swap to bringing that into the main QuTiP repo.  I can make a PR for my stuff then.
