To speed up runs when running on, e.g., IBMQ, all scaled circuits should be generated and then sent as a single job to execute. As opposed to scaling a single circuit then single a single circuit as a job to execute.
I think this is quite useful and it will be even more important for PEC.
If we agree to do it, we should decide between:
I think there's two changes that need to be made here:
For (1), I don't think it's easy to allow for either option. For example, qiskit.execute returns different output depending on whether a single circuit or a list of circuits is input. Thus the post-processing would have to be different in each case, so it may not be possible to have a single function that can do both options.
For (2), I have an idea how to do this. It's a non-trivial change, but not a breaking change I don't think. A sketch of my idea is as follows:
The BatchedFactory should be usable with both types of executors -- i.e., executors that input a single circuit and executors that input a list of circuits. The AdaptiveFactory should only be usable with executors that input a single circuit.
What do people think? Discussion + other ideas welcome.
+1. I like it!
With the suggested setting, we could also consider the possibility of requiring executors to always be batched. I.e.:
def executor(circuits: List[QPROGRAM]) -> List[float]: independently of the extrapolation method.
This can reduce confusion and the user can test adaptive or non-adaptive factories with the same executor. Adaptive methods would just use the executor with a batch size equal to 1.
If instead you we prefer to support both batched and non-batched executors, then I would make also AdaptiveFactory compatible with both.
Thanks @andreamari. I will start on re-defining BatchedFactory.
To summarize the other point and get more feedback, there are two options:
Both have pros and cons. Thoughts @willzeng @karalekas @nathanshammah?
I lean towards Option 2. As batched is the more advanced feature, we won't want to make the simple executor signature awkward for a single program. Hypothesis is that advanced users would be happy to just call a different method.
I'll switch this to @rmlarose, given #364.
