Informations
What is the current behavior?
Executing any circuit on the ibmqx5 or ibmqx4 chips yields this error:
Sometimes there will be a long delay before throwing this error.
This happens whether or not verify=True or False. If False, it first outputs
-- Ignoring SSL errors.  This is not recommended --
but it still throws the SSL error
Steps to reproduce the problem
What is the expected behavior?
My code was running last week. Then I had an error that seemingly kept my credits at zero. I then upgraded to qiskit 0.5.3 and upgraded to researcher status a few days ago, with 150 credits. Now I get this strange error I have never seen before.
Suggested solutions
Make the error messages more informative.
I am unsure of the root cause.
Hi @ogamel - can you let us know if you are using a proxy or similar?
Hi @diego-plan9, no proxy. If you have a question on a specific setting I can relay it to my network administrator.
Thanks for the quick reply! The reason for checking the existence of a proxy is because we cannot reproduce the issue, and it would be highly likely that a problem with the SSL certificate as a whole would have been detected much earlier and prominently if it affected other users. Can you paste me the output of:
on the same environment you are trying to run your snippet of code, and also the result of a command line tool (hopefully wget or curl are on your system):
Thanks!
Thank you Diego. The output of the first part is
the curl command output is rather long, so it is attached in a txt file
18.06.05 debug.txt
Thank you for your help
Hmm, it seems you are getting an HTTP 200 - meaning no SSL errors at all, which seems puzzling. Can you paste the contents of your Qconfig.py file (but please redact and do not paste your `APIToken)?
Speaking to my admins, it seems they were working out some network issues that are now resolved. My code now runs and I don't get the error.
Since it happened right after I upgraded qiskit version and changed status to researcher, I mistakenly  thought these were the causes. But I suppose, as David Hume would have it, deducing causality by the order of events is a subtle business :)
Thank you for your help Diego.
