Hello,
I am trying to open several Pyrpl GUI on the same computer (windows). Each GUI corresponds to one redpitaya. I use a local DHCP server assigning an IP address to each redpitaya. When starting a second GUI while the first one is already working, I have an error message :

For a better understanding of the bug, I used a Tera Term interface for each redpitaya. When starting the second one, I have this error :
'skbuff: skb_over_panic'
'kernel BUG'
see :

Thank you for helping !
HJ
Hi HJ,
sorry for the delayed answer here. Is your problem still bothering you? Could you post how you start the two GUI's for the two redpitayas please? I.e.
thanks!
So now, as you can make it work when different redpitayas are on different networks with different static IPs, we can narrow the error to one with IP adresses/networking issues.
I propose you try first to ssh to all the redpitayas connected to your DHCP. If this already does not work, it is not a pyrpl issue but a problem with your DHCP settings.
We have operated 5-10 redpitayas on the same LAN with a DHCH server, but we used fixed IPs (based on a mapping between IPs and each Redpitaya's MAC address in the dhcp-config-file of the DHCP server). Also on a home network, you can enter a fixed IP for each MAC address in the Router settings. Let me know how this goes.
Ok, thanks. Could you post again the error message you mention at the end of your post? It is not displayed so maybe it got lost on the way to github.
Also: how do you launch pyrpl for all these, i.e. how exactly do you pass them the ip address of the different redpitayas?
If this turns out to be correct, I will need more information to debug your problem since in general, pyrpl has worked before with multiple instances running on different redpitayas.
For that, you should edit the file global_config.yml in the directory pyrpl_user_dir under your home directory and set 'loglevel: debug'. Then, please copy-paste the entire text output from start (incl the commands) to where the error message appears. This is the only way ibsee to get closer tobunderstanding the problem here. Thx
Ok thanks. Just to be very clear: what IPs do you assign to your 2 Redpitaya's?
And you confirm that if you do it the other way around (first connect to redpitaya with IP address 192.168.1.101, and second connect to 192.168.1.100, you get the same error on the redpitaya with IP 192.168.1.100?
If that is so, I have no clear idea where the error comes from. But since you have some kernel error message, it seems like you have serious problems with the OS running on your redpitaya. My only suggestion in this case is to try a different version - unfortunately the setting up of static IPs may work differently on that version. This is why I prefer using DHCP with IPs assigned as a function of the MAC address - this works equally well with any Redpitaya OS. What version of the OS are you running btw?
