Would it be possible to use the liboqs and thus the new algo's in Wireguard?
I'm not a coder myself, thou i'd really love to see a "OQS-Wireguard" fork, if not too much work?
(Don't wanna use M$ 'PQ-VPN' - lack of trust, open-source or not.)
Another OT-q; which one is the safest (toughest) of the liboqs algo's & which one is the speediest?
Read somewhere 'Picnic'-algo is fast & secure against quantum.
Why i ask is because running a VPS with a private VPN on Debian, so suggestions is very welcome.
Also, could you describe what to do to encrypt filesystem w/ the pq-ciphers?
Thank you a bunch for your work - amazing truly!
Kudoz for all work you've done! <3
Best regards/
Z
Would it be possible to use the liboqs and thus the new algo's in Wireguard? I'm not a coder myself, thou i'd really love to see a "OQS-Wireguard" fork, if not too much work? (Don't wanna use M$ 'PQ-VPN' - lack of trust, open-source or not.)
There's been some research on adding post-quantum algorithms to Wireguard, see https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/379.pdf.  Since that's already underway, we don't have plans to specifically connect OQS with Wireguard in this project.
Another OT-q; which one is the safest (toughest) of the liboqs algo's & which one is the speediest? Read somewhere 'Picnic'-algo is fast & secure against quantum.
There's no simple answer to that.  I suggest waiting for the forthcoming selections by NIST to help narrow things down.
Why i ask is because running a VPS with a private VPN on Debian, so suggestions is very welcome. Also, could you describe what to do to encrypt filesystem w/ the pq-ciphers?
Filesystem encryption generally uses symmetric, rather than public key, algorithms.
Would it be possible to use the liboqs and thus the new algo's in Wireguard? I'm not a coder myself, >thou i'd really love to see a "OQS-Wireguard" fork, if not too much work? (Don't wanna use M$ 'PQ->VPN' - lack of trust, open-source or not.)
There's been some research on adding post-quantum algorithms to Wireguard, see >https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/379.pdf. Since that's already underway, we don't have plans to specifically >connect OQS with Wireguard in this project.
Another OT-q; which one is the safest (toughest) of the liboqs algo's & which one is the speediest? Read somewhere 'Picnic'-algo is fast & secure against quantum.
There's no simple answer to that. I suggest waiting for the forthcoming selections by NIST to help narrow things down.
Why i ask is because running a VPS with a private VPN on Debian, so suggestions is very welcome. >Also, could you describe what to do to encrypt filesystem w/ the pq-ciphers?
Filesystem encryption generally uses symmetric, rather than public key, algorithms.
Aha, i see. Did'nt deepen in research in every algo of the pq-ciphers, but that clears some other >questions up too.
Okay , i see, thanks for the url!
