OS: FreeBSD 13
I'm not exactly familiar with arm64 but the include file seems rather "generic" -- at least for gnu compilers. What cc are you using in this build? Any suggestions how we can reproduce? @Martyrshot : Any thoughts?
I'll need to verify this, but from what I can tell FreeBSD doesn't ship with the asm/hwcap.h header. We might need to do something like this.
@yurivict Could you please provide the commands you use to build liboqs? I've installed FreeBSD 13.1 rc6, but I'm getting different compilation errors than you. I had to patch the tests/ds_benchmark.h file, is there any others you modified to get to this point?
@baentsch
I'm not exactly familiar with arm64 but the include file seems rather "generic" -- at least for gnu compilers. What cc are you using in this build?
clang-13
Thanks @yurivict. I should have resolved the hwcap.h issue. I'm currently experiencing a lot of undefined references when building tests for sike. Specifically it looks like the .S files aren't being included in the shared library. I seem to remember there being an issue like this in the past, but I haven't been able to find it. @baentsch @dstebila, do either of you remember, or am I making that up?
I do recall issues with SIKE on "surprising" platforms in Debian, but arm64 should work, right , @christianpaquin? @Martyrshot : Do you mind sharing (via draft PR) what you did (as well as the error messages)? Maybe more eyes have an idea how to resolve this...
@baentsch Done! Pr: #1210
asm/hwcap.h is a Linux-only header.  It's not generic in any way.  Luckily the actual way to detect the availability of CPU features is the same on FreeBSD: just check the ELF aux vectors.
@yurivict, would you mind verifying if the fix provided on the jg-freebsd-cpu-features branch resolves your issue?
@Martyrshot I can't run on arm64 on demand. Instead I updated the port and will see in 24-48 hours if there are any failures during package builds.
I will report it here in a few days.
Ok, sounds good. Thank you!
It looks like there are no more failures on arm64.
