The documentation for UGate states that:
Problem is in the code documentation of UGate.
The expression above does not correspond to the matrix form given in the documentation of UGate, nor to the RX and RY expressions in terms of U. Since the latter are all in line with the behaviour of Qiskit's ideal simulator, the expression itself is incorrect. The correct expression is instead:
Fix the expression in the documentation. For convenience of the reader, one could also add the following simplified expression, from which the matrix, RX and RY expressions are more readily derived:
I agree that the first equation in the documentation looks clearly wrong - it doesn't reduce to the given matrix form.  However, your "simplified expression" is also not true; three Z rotations after each other cannot produce an X or a Y, and your right-hand side reduces to RZ(\phi + \theta + \lambda).
The main issue looks like a mistake that was corrected for U3Gate in #4842.  UGate was added to Qiskit only a day later in #4765, but given the PR ordering, it looks quite clear that the mistake got copied across from the original form, and the two PRs unfortunately got out-of-sync immediately.  If we're going to update UGate, we should use the exact same form that's given in U3Gate (which does look correct to me).
@Cryoris: perhaps you could just check my maths as well on this one, just to be sure?
@jakelishman That was a typo, thank you for spotting it 😄: the middle gate is an RX. I have also updated the docstring in the pull request.
By the way, the expression in the U3 gate documentation:
is indeed equivalent to the expression I gave:
The only difference is that the original U gate documentation used two RX(\pi/2) gates, while the current U3 gate documentation uses one RX(\pi/2) and one RX(-\pi/2). Which one to pick is mostly a matter of style, I guess. Also, both version look nicer in terms of RZ and RY (even though RY is not native):
I think the simplified expression above, rather than the RZ/RX one, would be better.
@Cryoris: perhaps you could just check my maths as well on this one, just to be sure?
@jakelishman yeah the U3 docs look good to me too 👍🏻 and I agree we should use the same definition as in the U3 to avoid future confusions and stay consistent.
