Parametric compilation saves time by compiling the program ansatz once, instead of compiling each time the parameters are updated. In pyQuil 2.28.1, a memory_map argument is used to substitute in values for previously-declared Quil variables in the pre-compiled executable. It would be helpful to be able to leverage the runtime improvement from parametric compilation when using Mitiq. Right now using a pyQuil memory map with Mitiq results in an error (details below).
The following code snippet (no mitigation) runs through and gives the expected result:
Adding the code snippet below results in an error:
The error message is
QVMError: At line 28: Bad memory region name "theta" in MOVE. This is probably due to either:
* a missing DECLARE for this memory,
* a misspelling of the memory reference, or
* a misspelling of the DECLAREd memory.
On the surface it looks like a problem with Quil, but the error only occurs with the addition of execute_w_zne. I suspect the error arises because Mitiq does not support memory_map, hence I filed the issue against Mitiq.
Hello @Misty-W, thank you for your interest in Mitiq!
If this is a bug report, please provide screenshots and/or minimum viable code to reproduce your issue, so we can do our best to help get it fixed. If you have any questions in the meantime, you can also ask us on the Unitary Fund Discord.
Thanks @Misty-W. I haven't looked into it yet but I suspect that the pyQuil program -> Cirq circuit -> pyQuil program conversion causes the "declare" memory reference to be lost.
Some of these more detailed features in individual circuits are harder to maintain during conversions. We should definitely support this if it is possible though.
Conversions indeed drop the memory reference:
Working on a fix for this.
#835 fixes this. You'll also need to use something like mitiq.interface.mitiq_pyquil.pyquil_utils.generate_qcs_executor to make sure the memory declarations are correct: The scaled circuits will have names like "m0" but you need a special one called "ro" to work in PyQuil.
Thanks @rmlarose, appreciate the quick fix!
As for declaring the "ro", right now I have
Hi Misty, I also fixed the other issues you were running into in #835. Here's your (slightly edited but same) example which I can successfully run on Mitiq/master now:
(The story with "ro" is that (i) you were doing it correctly but (ii) when execute_with_zne was called, the name of the register in the scaled circuits would get changed to something that wasn't "ro", so the measurements would be empty. But this is fixed now.)
@rmlarose, thanks again for the fix and the explanations! I tested the "slightly edited example" in my environment last night, and unfortunately I'm still getting the same error.
QVMError: At line 28: Bad memory region name "theta" in MOVE. This is probably due to either:
I made sure to update Mitiq from https://github.com/unitaryfund/mitiq.git before running my example. I also looked at the conversions.py file in my environment directory. I can see it is updated with your commits from the last 2 days, so I believe I have the correct version of Mitiq installed.
Next step is to try a fresh environment, just in case. Any ideas are welcome!
Still working for me. Did you do a development install (pip install -e .) of Mitiq? Suggest trying a clean install with that in a new environment. Please let me know on http://discord.unitary.fund if you still have issues.
