To apply an operator multiple times we can use the power method of the OperatorBase.
To streamline the notation with Gate and QuantumCircuit this should be change to repeat.
There exists a power method in Gate but this takes the matrix of the operation and computes the matrix power.
For power - since its the method that is called by the overidden power operator - do you really want to rename it? It will make the expression form and code seem different. E.g op ** 2  or op.power(2) today. Would a synonym be better i.e one can call power or repeat which do the same things?
I favor sticking close to the standard mathematical terms for objects and operations, when possible. Using power is probably better. But, it looks like this is a stub in any case ?
https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-aqua/blob/b54a4b6b42199ec9cef23384b1c55e2e4ef9d355/qiskit/aqua/operators/operator_base.py#L518-L527
Furthermore, I am in favor in general of minimal APIs with orthogonal elements. Does the advantage gained from adding an alias offer enough benefit to break this rule ?  From the issue description, I guess that the Gate (in a different repo) has a power function that is called repeat. I think power would be a better choice there. But, apparently power is reserved for a function that both converts and takes the power. I guess I'm not sure that adding repeat here would make things more clear.
The Gate has both power and repeat, where power computes the matrix representation of the gate (this class allows only unitary operations, so its possible), does matrix exponentiation and synthesizes this to a gate. repeat on the other hand, just repeats the gate several times.
For algos such as phase estimation we need to repeat circuits, gates and operators and to avoid writing special cases for each class it would be useful if they all provide the same methods. Therefore I think we should have a thing that repeats on all of them -- with the same name.
As for repeat vs power I don't have a very strong opinion, though I do see the need to differentiate between the exponentially expensive operation of computing the matrix, exponentiating it and then synthesizing it and just repeating the operation. If an implementation just repeats something, calling it repeat is probably clearer than power.
This is no longer necessary, we added power to the QuantumCircuit because even if you know an efficient way to implement the power of a circuit, repeat should just repeat. The power method however can implement a more efficient implementation if it knows one. See Qiskit/qiskit#4685.
