My quantum circuit's gates are inefficiently transpiling, causing my x sx gates to become rz sx rz gates. This brings my gates from 2->3 introducing noise

The transpiler should see if there is a more efficient way to create the circuit (if possible)
No response
Thanks for the report. In this case the warning was overzealous and we muted it with #7124
For most hardware (eg IBM platforms) rz.sx.rz is actually preferable to x.sx because rz is an instantaneous frame-update (which introduces no error) as opposed to x and sx which actually cause drive pulses to be emitted and these do introduce error.
There ongoing work to more properly handle tolerances and noise for 1-qubit gates in #7084 and once that merges we will likely re-enable a corrected version of the check that produced the warning you saw.
Closing as duplicate of #7224 but re-open if I missed something.
Hey! I'm following up on this since the error seems to have come back. Is there a way to mute it, as the output for long circuits greatly increases run time?
Do you have a reproducer for the new error?  As far as I know, nothing new should have changed in the 0.19.2 release that happened right before you wrote your comment, so it'd be good to know what's causing it.  Are you using the latest version of Terra?
Ok, in that case I think it's the same situation we were in before - Terra 0.19 should no longer be issuing those warnings, which hopefully should fix your immediate run-time issues. Please let us know if that's not the case by opening a new issue, since that would be a new bug.
What Lev said before about RZ and Z being effectively error-free on all hardware (that I can think of) still holds true - they're essentially equivalent to adding some phase offsets into the control fields, which is just a numerical trick on the classical side.  In theory, the transpiler should be correct from a noise standpoint to do what it's currently doing.
I'm not certain what the status of the work on making the synthesis cleverer about noise in non-standard cases here is - #7084 seems to have stalled for the time being on performance grounds, but I don't know if there's something else in the works.  For now, I'll re-close this, because we're tracking the same issue in #7033 (contains exactly the same circuit as yours) and #7042 - it's just helpful to keep stuff in fewer places.
