I was looking for the driver for our Agilent E8257D, and it took a while to find that the driver is called E8527D in qcodes (flipped 2 and 5). Note that the unit test where the IDN is checked is correct.
It should be fairly straightforward to rename the class and create a deprecated class with the old name, but if that's too much incompatibility, it would be enough to mention this in the docstring of the driver so that it would show up in a search for "8257D" (that's how I was trying to find the driver).
@mgunyho Thanks, looking closes it seems like all the Agilent instrument names are somewhat of a mess.
I think we should take the chance to clean this up.
I suggest that we stick with a convention of the class called {Vendor}{ModelNumber} (CamelCase) and the file called {Vendor}_{Modelnumber}.py and then add backwards compatible wrappers.
We currently have:
I think these should be
It's unclear to me what the difference is between the c and d models and if the drivers support both so perhaps, they should be?
Sounds like a good idea! Unfortunately I won't have enough time to submit a PR in the near future.
Another small gripe I have with the E8257 driver is that the parameter that turns RF generation on/off is called "status" (without any docstring!), I think it should be renamed to output_enabled to be consistent with other drivers (although I know that some other MW source drivers call it status as well).
I'm not that familiar with Agilent/Keysight naming conventions but by a cursory scan on the website it doesn't seem like there are similar devices with names like ENNNND and ENNNNC, so maybe the last letter also signifies something. I think it would be best to include the letter in the driver name as well, to minimize confusion.
Hmm okay, for the E8267C at least, it looks like the C signifies the "generation", the Keysight website says that it's an obsolete device and they recommend E8267D instead.. So maybe I was wrong.
@mgunyho would you by any chance have time to test #4371
I am on vacation until next Monday, I'll be able to try it then. Sorry for the delay.
No worries thanks ;)
