Is your feature request related to a use case or problem? Please describe.
I think given TEBD, it allows for the ability to create a canonical subcircuit factorization of any circuit. The canonical subcircuits would be determined at any particular moment by the disjoint sets of entangled qubits, and for each of those would extend on the t-axis until the moment where it is entangled with another set, or one of its qubits is measured.
Combined with #3674, caching the matrix representations of each of these subcircuits could speed up simulation time. Additionally, many of these subcircuits may be quite common across different projects when factored in this way, increasing the cache hit rate even when working across projects. This representation also allows a smart simulator to run the dependency graph of subcircuits in parallel.
Describe the solution you'd like
An optimizer that factorizes the circuit in the above fashion. Eventually a simulator that makes use of caching and/or parallelism to simulate these in an efficient manner.
What is the urgency from your perspective for this issue? Is it blocking important work?
P3 - I'm not really blocked by it, it is an idea I'd like to discuss / suggestion based on principle
Actually this may be paramerterizable by some maximum entanglement parameter, to allow minimally entangled subcircuits to be split out. Perhaps there is some MPS code that could be reused for this. (assuming MPS algo is independent of input vector).
Added POC above.
Converts
to
The question is whether this is useful for anything or not. Maybe it's useful for visualization? Or the cached / parallel simulation? But if most real-world quantum circuits are fully entangled, then probably this doesn't add much value.
Hi @daxfohl,
If you are motivated to see this to the end, it would be beneficial to dig a bit deeper and see whether there is a way our built-in simulator could make use of this and prove it to yourself (and us) that this is a valid avenue. Unfortunately doing the research itself would take some time on our end which is currently not likely that we'll invest. If you bring this up on a Cirq Cynque, you can give it a bit more attention and maybe someone from the maintainers will know more about this area.
Commented in the PR. Closing to keep the issue list clean. May continue noodling in my free time.
