Improve the current QConfig.py based authentication system in order to simplify the usage for the regular user flow (ie. when using qiskit-core as a single-account application) while retaining flexibility for other scenarios and user preferences.
Following the discussions at #385 and #471:
#413: previous issue with 0.5 planning
May I add a requirement here, described in #471, that the final mechanism is usable without having to modify any parts of the QISKit installation?
In scenarios such as Cloud or containers usage it my not be permitted to modify the installation location, so it must be possible to configure the library externally.  This might include an API call to define the source of the user configuration file, environment vars, and so on.
While a helper script to generate a configuration can be useful for single user install on a dedicated machine, it typically won't be usable in this scenario.
Absolutely - that would be one of the design goals, which is two-fold:
It was also not explicitly mentioned on the brief description, but for the configuration file, we would also make it possible to specify another location rather than the default ones (which I think might help in the specific case of container usage, where the paths might be more restricted). Would those mechanisms cover the requirement that you mention? We are open to more ideas!
I hope so.  At the moment I have a container with QISKit and the project's Jupyter examples in a format suitable for use by a variety of users.
I have to modify the QISKit install to move the Qconfig.py.template to Qconfig.py (which is ok, but not ideal), and once that is done I can use the IBMQE_API env var to inject the user-specific access key into the library as the notebooks are run.
This works well for the generic notebooks, and it sounds like you will maintain that flexibility in the redesign.  The additional flexibility for locating a configuration file, and passing the parameters to register() all sound good too, but won't be immediately useful to the example notebooks as we wouldn't expect people to change those to make them work.
