This could be done with jupyter-book, as discussed in the Mitiq meeting, which extends capabilities of my-binder.
Quick update on the findings so far:

I will work to assess the points above, some that we can discuss at the Meeting meeting (6pm CET Fridays on Unitary Fund Discord, http://discord.unitary.fund/). Personally I would be happy to enable a first interactive option along point 1., with Juptyer notebooks, which should be super light weight, if doable (should only require adapting a specific .yaml file for My Binder), and then look more carefully into JB migration, that requires more work and deliberation and may take a bit of time.
Hi! Juan Luis from Read the Docs here, @nathanshammah pinged me privately about this issue.
Your analysis of the current status of the ecosystem is very good. There is ongoing work to make Sphinx support .yaml config, one of the difficulties of supporting Jupyter Book natively on Read the Docs sphinx-doc/sphinx#9040 but the conversation has stalled. You can also see some discussions we had at the beginning of the year at executablebooks/jupyter-book#1091 (comment).
If you want to enable interactive code in a Sphinx project, you might want to have a look at https://sphinx-thebe.readthedocs.io/ which is also developed by the Executable Books Project, but is a conventional Sphinx extension that should work outside of Jupyter Book.
Happy to jump in a call or discuss this further if I can be of help!
Thanks @astrojuanlu, actually this solution of using sphinx-thebe in the current framework, and possibly add My Binder too, looks great to me and a good fix while things may be sorted out between Sphinx, JB & RTD. Thanks for the context.
Hi folks! Jupyter Book can finally be used on Read the Docs. This functionality hasn't been released yet and we're looking for beta testers, in case you're interested.
See a working example here: https://github.com/astrojuanlu/jupyterbook-on-read-the-docs
which I created following these docs: https://jupyterbook.org/publish/readthedocs.html
Let me know if you have any questions! Happy to jump to a chat.
I am reopening this as given the recent support of RTD of Jupyter book, we could move from Sphinx to Jupyter Book.
This issue had no activity for 2 months, and will be closed in one week unless there is new activity. Cheers!
