Hi,
I have a problem when executing the HHL algorithm on the backends and on the qasm simulator (it works fine with the statevector simulator). I receive the following error :
SolverError: The solver CVXOPT is not installed.
provider = IBMQ.get_provider(group='open')
backend = provider.get_backend('ibmq_qasm_simulator')
Hi, as far as I can see the exception is something that cvxpy would raise. cvxpy is used in Terra and Ignis but not in Aqua. Can you provide the output from the exception that shows the call stack so we can see better where this is coming from. I tried to see if I could get the issue by running the HHL code I have but it works fine - and I ensured cvxopt was not installed, was was using BasicAer wasm simulator. What version of qiskit do you have installed? If your code sample is short that can reproduce the issue with a local qasm simulator maybe you can post that here as well.
I'm using qiskit version 0.12.0
Here is the full output for the exception
And here is the full code that I used
I am not sure what version you have. You say qiskit 0.12.0 which was released in Aug 2019. Yet in the issue you say qiskit-aqua 0.6.5 and the former has 0.6.0 for Aqua. I tried 0.12.0 and your code will not run because HHL does not have a matrix_resize property. On newer versions the find_solution you provide would not unpack and failed. I just printed the result from BasicAer qasm_simulator as a backend. I saw no failures at all.
What I might suggest is to do pip install qiskit -U which will update your installation to the latest version. Then try that. (I see there are some deprecation warnings as Terra was updated in the qiskit meta package and Aqua is still using some now deprecated method - this will be fixed in the next release which should be very soon)
I updated qiskit and my algorithm works now, thanks a lot. 👍
I now get this Deprecation warning btw:
Great!, Yes, Terra deprecated a method in the latest release and an updated Aqua to correct that has not yet been released. A new version, which will correct that, will be released shortly. Since it works for you now I will close this off.
