Mitiq doesn't have a logo.
I think @nathanshammah created some logo options a while ago.
QuTiP's logo is a Schrödinger cat Wigner function, plotted with matplotlib. Qiskit is inspired by the Bloch sphere. Similarly, an idea could be to have a logo that is algorithmically designed. There could be a short logo.py file with a simple script that generates it from the error mitigation of a circuit, which would make it nerdier.
The inspiration is from ZNE plots with error bars / distributions

and this are some free-hand attempts,

while here is an example with xkcd's matplotlib plugin,

made with this notebook.
The algorithm could be related to #401 and #403.
Another simple idea (temporary, eventually): use UF's font and style.

I like both ideas.
Between the two, I am a bit more in favor of the second (Mitiq word) because of its simplicity.
If we decide to use the first (M symbol), I would completely remove the axis from the plot to make as simpler as possible.
Here are some suggestions based on the idea of noise.

It would be better to use the same font as UF's font.
Hey guys! I came upon this post from someone who is also contributing to the Mitiq's project. I am a Design student and certified UX designer and I would love to help out with this issue.

Based on the color of the Unitary Fund's current logo and the idea that Mitiq works with noise mitigation, these are logo proposals I made for Mitiq.

If you have any comments, suggestions, or any concept you'd like for the logo, feel free to write it out here, or pm me.
Thanks @francespoblete. I personally Like the idea but think that the current proposals are a bit too hard to read.
@nathanshammah Thanks for the comment! I could revise it to make it more readable and submit the revision afterwards. :)
Hey, sorry it's been a while. I understand that the noise was too much so I minimised it. Please see below revisions.


Aside from that, I also have new logo proposals. I am aware that in Physics, a cat is super famous. So I tried to integrate it in the design. And here's what I came up with.


Hope to hear from you guys soon! Keep safe! Cheers!
@francespoblete That schrodinger's cat is amazing 😻 !
This is something the above inspired for me:

Decided at Mitiq meeting to add some noise to the Schrodinger cat logo and follow up. Thanks for the multiple designs!!
Perhaps a poll to decide the final logo? (on discord.unitary.fund)
Hi all! As per the discussion during the meeting, I have revised the Schrodinger's cat logo to have some noise. I made emphasis to the noise by adding shadows to it, which also resulted to emphasize the regular ones ("noise reduced concept").



Seems like there is interest in this again. I am personally a big fan of consistent style/branding. So following up on my earlier suggestions, my final design is a box logo with the same font as UF's with a different coloured background (I include a few colours) and noise. There are 2 versions of the noise. First, is where noise decreases from left to right and the second where noise is "constant" throughout. I also added two version, one with uppercase and one lowercase with lowercase m.
Edit 1: Replaced background colours with more vibrant ones (can go back to muted colours) and fixed alignment issues.
Edit 2: Inspired by @crazy4pi314, I added a "glitched" version. I think it's really cool.
Edit 3: Yet another variation. This one with noise only on the "q" for quantum. This version looks very clean and a bit more subtle.
First Proposal:

Second Proposal:




Thanks everyone! These are great!
I'm partial to the consistent branding of our font. The second proposal in the above stands out to me (with the black text and white background)

Hey all,
Based on your preference I made a new proposal following the design made above. I understand that you guys would like to integrate the unitary fund logo into the mitiq logo fully so I decided to create one that is almost exactly unitary fund. ☺️ Would love to hear your comments and suggestions.

OMG I love it <3<3
@francespoblete, thanks, this has been accepted as the new logo! 🎉
One question: would it be possible to just do one last test on the q, to replace completely the back font with the blue and red 3D effect? That's because the contours of the q may be hard to reproduce when the logo is small, or printed small.
Another request is: highlighting the text in yellow instead of the full background, a bit like UF logo.
I think a favicon would be great, thanks!
Hey all,
I'm not really sure what you meant by the first question but this is how I interpreted it. If this is different from what you were saying @nathanshammah, I still could change it. 😊

The yellow background like in the UF logo is implemented below.

And here is the favicon

This is done! Thanks so much again to @francespoblete for some amazing work 💖🎉
Thanks @francespoblete! These came out wonderfully!
