I have been trying to train a qsvm with my own dataset. But It returns this ValueError from qp_slover.py
ValueError: cannot reshape array of size 1 into shape (1614,1)
I have tried to run the model with different feature_maps, but the problem persists. Would you please tell me what the issue could be and how to solve it?
This has been noticed recently that with some sizes of data the optimization that is done in qp_solver can fail and that is the result. We are thinking of adding some additional regularization term that allows the optimization a better chance of success. It has worked for the data sets and sizes we tried. Until that is added my only suggestion would be to try a different size for a your data set - for instance we saw cases where 42 would work, 43 would fail as above, and 44 would work.
Thank you for your quick reply. I will try that.
@woodsp-ibm I have tried different dataset sizes, but none of them worked. Is there anything else I could do? Should I do something different if the dataset is nonlinear separable?
I mentioned that we were thinking of adding an additional regularization term which solves the problem on the data sets that we have tried. It would mean replacing the qp_solver.py in your installation with an updated version that I could point you at - it is being worked on for a PR to Aqua to address this and was still being tested. Would you like to give this a try? Alternatively if the data set you are using is publicly available it maybe something we can check out to ensure it works too.
Yes, please point me to the new version.
Ok, here is the updated file. It has a lambda2 value in there which defaults to 0.001. Hopefully it works with the default value but if not just try changing it a little bit bigger. We are working to expose this via QSVM so in practice it will be easier to set. But for now I think this should be ok to test things. Let us know how you get on with it https://github.com/sternparky/qiskit-aqua/blob/QSVM_update_Reg_Rotation/qiskit/aqua/utils/qp_solver.py
Thank you for the link! I will keep you updated.
@Supers25 Any update - did that help? As you can see a PR has been created that links to this issue. The PR locally fixes thing for the datasets we had seen the solver error but I was holding off merging to see if it solved things for you too. If so I will change the PR to have it auto-close this issue when it get merged.
Thank you for checking in. The training is still running. I will keep you posted.
@woodsp-ibm It worked. Thank you for your help.
Great, thanks for the update. I'll approve the PR so the fix can be merged and be part of a future release.
