I have master equation that used in many atomic physics to from

Where  are diagonal matrix.
Pleas help me to employ this master equation in Qutip.
Hi Hosseinyeganeh,
For question about qutip usage, please use the google group: https://groups.google.com/g/qutip
For this equation, for arbitrary  you will have to build the super-operator yourself and pass it to mesolve as H with no c_ops.
I cannot give an example without knowing what lambda is.
If the lambda term does not depend on rho, I would not use mesolve but just build the matrix using numpy and scipy.
The other terms can be represented as qutip.liouvillian(H) - (qutip.spre(T) - qutip.spost(T))/2.
@Hosseinyeganeh It sounds like you are asking us to implement homework for you. Even if this is not the case 1) please ask for general help on the QuTiP mailing list which Eric pointed you too, not here on the bug tracker, and 2) please be prepared to put in a bit more effort yourself when asking for assistance. No one is going to do all the legwork for you.
It is not homework baby
Qutip don't solve master equation in this form
you have no answer so be quite please
Simon, Eric, and I are all administrators on QuTiP.  It doesn't matter what your academic position is, if you're going to put in no effort and be rude when this is pointed out, you'll find no help from us here.  Consider this the first and final warning. If you keep being rude to our contributors, you'll be banned from interacting with the QuTiP organisation.
@jakelishman You are not allowed to speak in bad form. I have question and talk with  @Ericgig
you and @hodgestar  should not make fun of it . I'm sorry
Thanks  @Ericgig
Best
@Hosseinyeganeh no one was making fun of your question. Only, it seemed that too much was asked from the developers, without enough details surrounding the issue.
Also, as pointed out by @Ericgig in the first reply, the correct space for physics-related and use-related questions, unless they are bug reports,  feature requests, or questions on the code and community, is https://groups.google.com/g/qutip. Please feel free to ask the question there and I hope that the information provided here already helped with the problem.
