I've been playing around, trying to simplify my solution to kata SuperpositionOneMeasurement in the Measurements section. The essential part of the reference implementation is the function FindFirstSuperpositionDiff_Reference, which detects at which position in the bit arrays occurs a "total difference", i.e. one has only true values and the other false or vice versa. Building on the assumption that bits1 and bits2 are isomorphic (M ⨯ N, as per the description) I came up with a simplified version of the function:
When using this function tests started to fail. I investigated this by inserting Message statements and inspecting the lengths of bits1 and bits2 and noticed that there are many cases in which they are different. The original function FindFirstSuperpositionDiff_Reference deals with it by comparing to two different lengths, but with the isomorphism assumption in force, the lengths should be the same, i.e. both functions should be equivalent. Am I missing something?
You're right, nice catch - thank you!!
Originally PR #167 which introduced these tasks had test data only for both arrays having the same dimensions, but as I was reviewing it, I realized that the solution doesn't really depend on the exact number of terms in the superposition states we're trying to distinguish, so I suggested removing this constraint. Looks like we changed it everywhere except the task statement...
We need to re-phrase the task description for this task (and probably the next one as well - it says "The arrays describe the superposition states in the same way as in the previous task." which implies that the arrays have the same dimensions) to say that the arrays will have the same second dimension N, but might have different first dimensions M₁ and M₂.
Do you want to try and create a PR to fix the task description? (I'm not sure if you're participating in Hacktoberfest, if yes, this would be a good start at it!) If not, I'll get to fixing it at some point this week.
Thanks for your clarification. I'll create a PR in the coming day or two.
I'm not participating in Hacktoberfest (yet). I might give it a try. Thanks for the suggestion :).
Created a PR with the change.
OK, I may have taken your suggestion about Hacktoberfest a bit too eagerly :). I have three additional PRs offering conceptual simplifications of reference implementations.
There is no such thing as taking Hacktoberfest too seriously, unless you're well in your third dozen of PRs during the first day 😄 Thank you - I'll take a closer look at them later today.
Thank you.
