I am quite puzzled at how the 1.4 task works. I understood the solution with the phase kickback trick. However, every time I execute it, it is outputting :
Qubit in invalid state. Expecting: Zero
	Expected:	0
        Actual:	0,5000000000000007
Try again!
This is quite puzzling as when I am using the DumpMachine() function from Microsoft.Quantum.Diagnostics, the machine is in a weird state. At the beginning, the input register is in a random superposition state out of 3 qubits. Then, I use the new qubit as the target qubit and the number of possible state goes up (logically), but then I can do whatever I want with the new qubit and it will not change the state the machine is in. I also want to point out this happens when I execute the solution given in the reference file.
I hope you can help me with this since I am quite lost.
Could you please provide the code you're trying? I have just double-checked the task and the following code passes the test, so the reference solution is correct.
This is the definition of the operation which was put in a cell above the function and was run before :
And this is the function to call the operation :
I noticed that the main difference is that you only inputed one parameter, the marking oracle, and the answer I found used an underscore as the register input. I know that the underscore is partial application, but I must say the even after reading the docs, I still don't understand a lot.
Sorry, I was a bit hasty in my earlier copy-paste, of course if you want to write the solution from scratch it should be as you listed. But I cannot reproduce the failure; when I try to do exactly what you did, the test passes:

I'm puzzled as for what could be going wrong - any issues in the local QDK setup usually manifest before one can get the test results... Are you running this on Binder or on your local setup? Are you getting this behavior when you run the cells with this code from scratch? Is it possible that you executed the cells in a different order, or they had different code in them the first time you executed them?
Whilst I was rechecking if there was any difference I changed the name of the function from "OracleConverter_Reference" to "OracleConverter" and ran the cell again (with the operation already defined) and it suddenly worked. Black magic ! When I changed it back to "OracleConverter_Reference" it also worked ! But when  I restart the notebook the problem still arises when the thing is named "OracleConverter_Reference". I am quite puzzled. I am running this on local on version 0.11.2003.3107.
