I noticed in the release notes that two new classes, AncillaRegister and AncillaQubit have been added. There was some discussion with the community a while back that 'ancilla' is potentially problematic as it comes from 'maid, slave-girl'.
Although 'ancilla' is a very common term in quantum computing (and I imagine most users will not be aware of its etymology) it seems 'auxiliary' could be a direct replacement in this context, which would be an easy fix that does not have the same connotations.
It would be great if there was a way to slowly wean 'ancilla' out of qiskit in favour of something else.
Ey @1ucian0, any news on this?  Did you have any conversation?
So I think this would be fine to do, but before we can start to do anything here it's necessary to settle on standard terminology (which is arguably a larger concern than just qiskit because ancilla is standard term in quantum computing).
That being said we can start to take a look at the ancilla usage in qiskit to size the work. Using grep on the repo yields the following usage counts of ancilla by file (case-insensitive):
The majority of these would be a simple find and replace (especially everything in the tests) as they're internal variables, but there are several things like the AncillaQubit class and kwargs for functions and classes that we would need to deprecate before we can change. For example,
places like: https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/blob/a026b627b3462ee116357a7042641cc1c2186af4/qiskit/extensions/quantum_initializer/isometry.py#L66 will need to deprecate the old name to allow any users passing any of those arguments by name a chance to adjust. There are a bunch of places and things like this mixed into that list.
I'd say once there is a decision on a new standard terminology we can start by doing the simple find replace on internal variables and tests as a first pass and then do follow on PRs to start adding new things and deprecations.
Given that we're now 2.5 years on from this issue, and (to the best of my knowledge) neither we nor the wider quantum-computing community has really converged on any other terminology, I'll close this discussion as staled.
If there's renewed interest in continuing this discussion with a view to actually effecting a change, please feel free to re-open this.
