I've built .bit for sayma_amc (without sawg). But artiq_flash is having trouble with the jtag chain.
Looks like a hardware bug that we also see here. Make sure that the RTM is installed (there is a MMC firmware bug that intermittently causes this issue if the RTM is not there) and power-cycle the board. Cc @gkasprow
I've tried power cycling. The RTM is connected. No luck.
Does your board have the 1V8 supply working (corresponding LED on)?
@jbqubit you can flash your MMC easily - all you need is Flashmagic and USB cable
I suppose this also works with OpenOCD and most JTAG cables with the ARM pinout, but I have not tried (there is a risk of bricking the board and of more MMC frustration). In ionpak there is an example OpenOCD script to program a ELF binary into a TM4C MCU.
I've switched to using a bench top power supply, no back plane. All power LEDS on Sayma_AMC are illuminated. Current draw on +12V is 363 mA. A new variety of flashing errors appear.
@gkasprow I'd rather not mess with the MMC right now. I just want to get ARTIQ running on Sayma_AMC.
@jbqubit did you modify the loading script? @jordens posted some time ago that to make JTAG over USB running, one needs to setup right clock edge.
I am using artiq_flash.py in master. @jordens are there diffs I should know about?
I am not aware of any.
@gkasprow I have two copies of Sayma_AMC. Their current draw is markedly different. That doesn't seem right.
Please describe your setup.
artiq_flash doesn't support Sayma without RTM. You need to edit the OpenOCD script manually if you want to do anything with Sayma AMC alone.
That's not what a comment in the source says... I started without the RTM due to this comment.

That comment simply means that writing the RTM bitstream into the flash is not yet supported. By the way, you still need to make a decision regarding the way the RTM FPGA will be loaded.
Judging from the last log, it seems there are no JTAG troubles other than OpenOCD attempting to access the non-existent RTM FPGA...
Success!
