Currently validate-notebooks.ps1 script excludes several notebooks which would fail validation. There are several reasons for failure (see them documented here), and often they affect one or two tasks from the notebook, rather than all of them. Excluding whole notebooks from validation also means that CI can miss issues like invalid JSON in the notebook itself (see an example in #411).
Modify the script so that it's possible to exclude from validation individual tasks, rather than whole notebooks. This would allow us to improve the test coverage by including tasks that can be validated and validating the notebooks formatting. For example, in CHSHGame kata only task 1.2 cannot be validated (since it consists of two cells that would need to be implemented simultaneously, which is not possible with the current implementation), the rest of the tasks can be validated normally.
Hi @tcNickolas. Is it necessary to specify the tasks that need to be excluded in the validate_notebooks.ps1 script as CHSHGame.ipynb#T12_ClassicalStrategy_Test? 
I have a slightly different strategy to solve the problem.
Firstly add a tag to the exclude_from_validation to the operations AliceClassical and BobClassical in CHSHGame.ipynb as shown below :

Then, update the validate_notebooks.ps1 script as follows :
It would be great to know your opinion on the above strategy...
This looks like a really neat approach! (I didn't dig deep enough into the Notebooks to find this feature.) I like that the meta-information that defines whether the cell needs to be checked is stored next to that cell itself, rather than in a separate script.
We'll need to document that carefully - probably somewhere in the contribution guide, and add a link pointing there from validate_notebooks.ps1, otherwise it will be hard to discover.
Thank you for the idea!! Will you be working on it?
I would like to work on this issue.
Hi @tcNickolas , I would like to discuss a few things before sending the PR:
Based on some experimentation on my local machine, here is a high level summary of a few things:
Some of the notebooks which can be removed from not_ready list without excluding any tasks in the notebook. Validation of these notebooks is successful on my local machine :
Some of the notebooks/workbooks in which some specific tasks need to be excluded
Let's see...
