Failure to run quantum circuit after circuit.initialize() method and any gate, using either statevector or qasm simulator.
The circuit runs when only having an initialize method. But it fails when more gates are appended after the initialization.


...

I would imagine we can initialize a state and apply any gate we want to it. Here, this code block should get a Python dictionary of measurement counts.
The second param of initialize() method can also be a bit misleading, causing ambiguity when reading the doc, since one may natively think "qubits" as the number of qubits. But I think I get the intention now.

Could you try upgrading your version of Terra, and seeing if the bug persists?  You've got a pretty old version (0.19.2) compared to the current 0.22.0.
(For what it's worth, I ran this:
with Terra 0.22.0 and Aer 0.11.0 and got
which looks about right to me.)
Could you try upgrading your version of Terra, and seeing if the bug persists? You've got a pretty old version (0.19.2) compared to the current 0.22.0.
(For what it's worth, I ran this:
with Terra 0.22.0 and Aer 0.11.0 and got
which looks about right to me.)
Thanks a million, I will do so right away!
Glad to hear it!  Let us know if it works (or doesn't) so we can close the issue / fix the bug as appropriate.
Glad to hear it! Let us know if it works (or doesn't) so we can close the issue / fix the bug as appropriate.
Thanks. I have tried upgrading my qiskit to the version that is suggested but it did not work. Then I created a new Conda environment, and installed from scratch. It still did not work, with the same error message, as above, complaining about the reset instruction.

I have also attached the results from %qiskit_version_table

Something looks odd here - the files / line numbers in your traceback are consistent with Terra 0.19.2 still, not 0.22.0, despite what the version table says.  I think somewhere along the lines, your environments must have got mixed up, or perhaps you're using both pip and conda somehow?  At any rate, right now, it looks like the issue is with your local Python setup somehow or another, which isn't something I can massively help with, sorry.
Something looks odd here - the files / line numbers in your traceback are consistent with Terra 0.19.2 still, not 0.22.0, despite what the version table says. I think somewhere along the lines, your environments must have got mixed up, or perhaps you're using both pip and conda somehow? At any rate, right now, it looks like the issue is with your local Python setup somehow or another, which isn't something I can massively help with, sorry.
Thanks for the help regardless. I was using conda to create an environment, then pip to install qiskit and related packages. I can try use venv to create an environment instead and see how that goes.
At this point, I am not sure why. I followed the official installation https://qiskit.org/documentation/stable/0.39/getting_started.html
My Ubuntu machine works fine, but the Windows machine does not work. At least one of them is working.
Ubuntu (python 3.10.6): "conda list":

Windows (python 3.8.13): "conda list":

