Tutorials should include the following copyright statement (preferably at the bottom to avoid clutter):
where XXXX is the year of the tutorial in question.
how do you suggest doing this.
The same header we have in the source as markdown text at the bottom of each example.
@nonhermitian this can get a little complicated since we have community-contributed tutorials as well. what is the goal of adding this to tutorials?
So the issue here is that we have had our tutorials stripped of their qiskit identification, and represented by others as their own work.  At present we list this repo as being under Apache 2, but only in the readme.  So if someone is pointed to a file from some other location, there is no license information available to indicate that the files are under Apache.  The community contributed ones are still under this license as they have signed the CLA.  So the recommendation would be to put the license footer on all notebooks, just like all source code contributions to qiskit must have the IBM Apache 2 header in them.
Thanks for explaining @nonhermitian. @jaygambetta this makes sense to me -- I can add the Apache 2 footer if we have consensus. What do you think?
If this is implemented, we'd need to tell external contributors to add to it their pull request. I would expect that this might put people off from contributing (even though it just restates what they agreed to in the CLA), since it seems to give IBM credit for their work.
Is there any possibility that contributors could alter it slightly? For example, replacing the first line with
I want to use Quantum_Cryptography2.ipynb's QKD BB84 Algorithm in my project. So basically, I want to change, modify, and implement it to my software. How should I include the license? For addition, I'm planning to upload my software to github, with MIT License.
I also added this paragraph in project:
"This system's BB84 Algorithm code is inspired by Quantum_Cryptography2 of Qiskit. We modified this code so that we can make QKD connection between two function, program, or clients. Also, we implemented it to Javascript."
Hi @kenixer. Here is the license. The most important part is probably
Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
meet the following conditions:
(a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
Derivative Works a copy of this License; and
(b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that You changed the files; and
(c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
the Derivative Works; and
(d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
as modifying the License.
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
the conditions stated in this License.
Well, I created NOTICE directory in my repo, and copied this repo's LICENSE file in that directory. Also I added the comment in the code, which says that I modified them. Isn't that enough?
This is done.
