Change readthedocs page to match the qBraid theme colors and fonts
The docs directory in this repo is what we use to generate our readthedocs page which can be found at docs.qbraid.com. It uses Sphinx / RST and mixed in with HTML. Using the resources available online, we want to make templates that allow our readthedocs page to match our qBraid theme. Everything from colors, to text fonts, etc. We want it to match the rest of our website, because right now much of it just uses the default / built-in sphinx_rtd_theme. A good example of this being done well is Pennylane readthedocs generated from the Pennylane github (doc) directory. They have a directory _templates and reference a pennylane html theme which they've created, which seems to have allowed them to makes their docs page match the rest of their website.
To generate rebuild the docs, follow directions in the README. At the top of the tox.ini file, it reads in some environment variables for testing, I don't think this part is necessary just for the docs. So in your local dev branch, you can make any modifications to existing tox / test scripts to bypass the other unit tests and linters, and just build and test the docs.
@rryoung98 will comment with more details about specifics of qBraid theme
Logos:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1C6C2GBrPQuF-cGeJ7BUleRkW3jIq7_F5?usp=share_link
@pronil-wedefineapps In the style guide linked below you will find more details and general rules we try to follow to be consistent with our branding.
Style guide: qBraid Brand Style Guide.pdf
In our docs page, we would like all the text in headers/sub-headers/body etc. to adhere to the fonts given on page 6: typography. This excludes any text that is code-based, which can stay in raw text format so that it looks like code. You've already started on changing the color schemes to match our branding (page 5), which is terrific. After your happy with the text fonts/styles and colors updates, I can review your progress and let you know about any modifications or additional things to do. But for now, the text fonts are the next biggest TODO. Thanks!
