Describe the bug
I want to compute the 2op_2t correlation function for a problem that I have. The documentation says that the steady state will be computed if I pass state0=None. In the source code, whenever this is passed, the time list tlist gets overridden to [0]. No warnings or messages are shown to the user that whatever previous tlist the user passed is being overridden. I think either a warning or the possibility that the list is not overridden should be the default behaviour.
To Reproduce
Please provide a minimal working example. For instance:
The terminal out put is
Expected behavior
c1 and c2 should be the same.
Your Environment
Additional context
This is easy to solve, I can open a PR. I've also noticed that some 1t correlation functions have t and tau defined in the documentation, but t should be 0 instead.
Hi @VolodyaCO,  thanks for reporting this!
I think the reason for tlist being overridden is because the result will be independent of tlist when the input is a steady-state. This can be seen in the following equations:

where rho is the initial state (state0) and H is the Hamiltonian of the system. I use the fact that rho is a steady-state to remove its temporal dependence. This derivation is simplified assuming unitary evolution (no collapse operators) but the same applies in the most general case where we include the collapse operators. This is my guess on why tlist=[0] is employed when using state0=None: the result does not depend on tlist. Hence, this is probably not a bug as the result should be mathematically correct.
That being said, I would also expect the same output shape for the cases shown above unless explicitly mentioned in the docstring of the function. Thus, I think the way to go here is to document this behaviour in the docstring (as well as removing the t appearing in correlation_..._1t docstring) as any change in the output shape will break backwards compatibility. However, it may be worth considering whether this is the intended behaviour for QuTiP 5. I would suggest removing state0=None as possible input for simplicity in the maintenance and testing or at least I would make the example shown by @VolodyaCO to be consistent and have the same output.
Let us see what the QuTiP admin team thinks 😄
This appears to already be the document behaviour, see https://qutip.org/docs/latest/apidoc/functions.html#qutip.correlation.correlation_2op_2t:
tlist: array_like
list of times for t. tlist must be positive and contain the element 0. When taking steady-steady
correlations only one tlist value is necessary, i.e. when t → ∞; here tlist is automatically set, ignoring user input.
Perhaps the documentation could be made more clear, but I don't think we should change the behaviour without a compelling reason since other QuTiP users may rely on it, and it seems sensible to return only a single result in the steady state case.
Closing this issue for now, but please feel free to comment or reopen if you'd like to discuss it further.
