This issue is to track the problems with Python 3.8.
It can be closed as soon as we can develop and run Cirq against 3.8, meaning that we have CI jobs against it as well.
dev_tools/Dockerfile does not build
related #3154
related #3124
This is picked up by @seunomonije based on our conversations - thanks @seunomonije!
@balopat here is a status update. Unfortunately I haven't made as much progress as I would've liked to yet due to this bug. Currently looking into it and I will come back with a solution.
grpcio-tools collection seems to be defaulting to an outdated version (1.24.x), as can be seen here
when attempting to install all the packages in the development environment using
on Python 3.8.5.
Currently looking into whether or not this is an error on my end but it's been holding me up for the past couple days. The wheel doesn't build for grpcio-tools which isn't allowing me to start actual work and I feel like this may be the cause.
Enclosed is the full error output, currently looking into finding a way default to grpcio-tools (1.30.x) and see if a fix will come from there. Important things to note from this error message is that pip uninstalls a manually updated version of grpcio-tools (1.30.x), presumably in favor of the older version.



The error did not come up when setting up for development for Python 3.7, so I think this issue either is native to 3.8 or is my own error.
Thanks for the update! Yes, so that is coming from dev_tools/conf/pip-list-dev-tools.txt. From what I see from their releases is that grpc released python 3.8 wheels starting from 1.25 so we need to upgrade this requirement at least probably to 1.25. Let's see if we can find the minimum required upgrades to make this work!
@balopat looking at the linked release docs you gave me I see release 1.26.0 includes the Python 3.8 wheel.
I changed line 11 in dev_tools/conf/pip-list-dev-tools.txt to grpcio-tools~=1.26.0, which fixed my issue and successfully installed all the other packages. Thank you for pointing this out to me. Would this be something you'd like me to submit a pull request for?
I also want to note that while other packages installed successfully, I received a warning message
This seems like something I would need to look into and fix, correct? Looking at this release doc like you just did for grpcio-tools, I see that we would need to downgrade scipy to 1.4.1, which would be the minimum required to make it work. However, this makes me wonder if there are any other packages which require scipy > 1.5 to work. Sounds like something I also can look into.
Also, I found that Qiskit needs to be upgraded to 0.15.0 since qiskit-terra supports Python 3.8 via release 0.12.0, which is addressed first in Qiskit 0.15.0 (sticking to minimum required upgrade rule). Running pytest with Qiskit 0.13.0 yields 161 failed test cases, Qiskit 0.15.0 passes all tests.
dev_tools/Dockerfile does not build
Also, what command are you running to build dev_tools/Dockerfile? I was able to print the Foxtail system in a Docker image successfully with the two small changes I made, but also I'm new to Docker images so I probably don't have the whole picture.
Also, I found that Qiskit needs to be upgraded to 0.15.0 since qiskit-terra supports Python 3.8 via release 0.12.0, which is addressed first in Qiskit 0.15.0 (sticking to minimum required upgrade rule). Running pytest with Qiskit 0.13.0 yields 161 failed test cases, Qiskit 0.15.0 passes all tests.
Great find, probably that was the issue in #3152 as well.
dev_tools/Dockerfile does not build
Also, what command are you running to build dev_tools/Dockerfile? I was able to print the Foxtail system in a Docker image successfully with the two small changes I made, but also I'm new to Docker images so I probably don't have the whole picture.
This should do the trick (make sure you have Docker Desktop installed / Docker for linux):
Looking at the pyscf question:
SciPy 1.5+ will be required only by a coming PR #2872, but even that is going to be in contrib first (i.e. contrib dependencies are installed optionally) - but when it matures it might get added to core cirq in which case this might become a harder requirement (probably not earlier than a year).
I use pipdeptree to figure out what pulls it in.
As qiskit is only required by testing currently, I'm not too worried about this requirement - though it might bite us a bit in future tests. If the tests are running (we are using a tiny portion of qiskit that probably does not exercise the scipy 1.4 only paths) then we should be good.
Awesome. pipdeptree is really cool..just learning about it now. Thank you for the docker help as well.
After running the docker image on my machine, the build failed but due to a different error than you had earlier. Looking at the one you posted before, building the wheel for the typed-ast package failed (version 1.3.5 attempted), seemingly because the versions didn't match up for whatever reason, because when running it on my machine it opts to use version 1.4.1 which works fine.
My issue comes again with Qiskit, specifically with building the wheel for qiskit-aer. I'm sure this is just another Qiskit version error..the versions my machine are currently using are:
I'm sure that this is a quick fix of making sure the Qiskit dependencies match up then we'll be good to go, everything else goes through. I'll get on it either later tonight or tomorrow.
Attached is my error output:



In other news, just had my first class on Quantum Computation and Information today and it went fantastic. We're having to prove a bunch of concepts mathematically for the first assignment so it'll be "fun" for the first few weeks.
In other news, just had my first class on Quantum Computation and Information today and it went fantastic. We're having to prove a bunch of concepts mathematically for the first assignment so it'll be "fun" for the first few weeks.
Great, I hope you're enjoying it! :)
I'm sure that this is a quick fix of making sure the Qiskit dependencies match up then we'll be good to go, everything else goes through.
Let me know if you get stuck!
