I have installed openmpi and build qiskit-aer with source allowing MPI and GPU support with required flags. Now when I run my code with python3 command, it works fine but when I run it with mpirun command, it generates above error.
With mpirun, it generates SegmentationFault, Fortunately I have root access, running command with --allow-root generates following error:
My code is:
Running Code with mpirun command generates error
Code should run same both with python3 and with mpirun python3 other than processes difference. When I go to installed qiskit path I found there is not qiskit.providers.aer folder, when I changed in code to qiskit.provider.basicaer (which path existed in my case), error changed.
I think there is something related to path not set but I am not sure.
please try removing importing provider and using run fucntion
I tried it and it again generated same error with qiskit_aer
Without using mpi, code works fine for both qiskit_aer and qiskit.providers.aer
I think your mpirun does not copy virtual environment of Python to the processes. If so please prepare script to setup virtual env to all processes as same as virtual env using on the login node
I was able to solve above problem by manually adding virtual environment path in code i.e. adding this line:
However I am having another issue when I ran with np > 1
It throws following error:
I think I have to code program with MPI commands but shouldn't qiskit able to do this by itself. All examples of qiskit with MPI i have gone through donot cater this kind of multi-processing.
I think this script was executed successfully but the problem is caused by 2 in the error message. Aer does not call MPI_Finalize because Aer may be called multiple-times from Python so we do not call MPI_Finalize (Because in some environment, MPI_Init can not called multiple-times even MPI_Finalize is called in each)
I haven't seen any example of qiskit-aer with gpu and mpi which is explicitly calling MPI commands, can you please share so I get the idea.
And one thing more I have one GPU and when I run with np>1 with specifying device='GPU' in AerSimulator call I again get Segmentation Fault. Can't I run multiple processes using  a single GPU instance or np should equal to no. of available GPUs?
Can you run with device='CPU' by mpirun?
Yes with CPU it works fine . So I suppose I can give np=no. of GPUs.
I am also getting an error below when I run code on two distributed nodes (with/without GPU).
As i have searched this error, it comes in relation with MPI_Init() command which I am not using at all and leaving it upto qiskit_aer to handle it. Do you have any idea how can I get rid of it?
Links I have read so far regarding this issue are [1]  and [2]
Could you try using -DAER_DISABLE_GDR=True option to build MPI binary
It worked, Thank you.
