The runtime in the UI is inaccurate until the job completes or fails.
During runtime:

After runtime:

The runtime should reflect the runtime since dispatch.
At first, I thought this might be the same issue as #1420, but that was specifically the total dispatch duration, which is different (for me, the total dispatch duration appears just fine so maybe that prior issue can be closed).
¯\(ツ)/¯
@arosen93 I wasn't able to reproduce this. But then, I am using the version of covalent which is the current develop branch on Github i.e. it is not a released version.
I am on a Mac with Python 3.9.16 installed via Mambaforge
Perhaps the fix is present in the current state of the repository and simply hasn't been released yet...
Maybe @santoshkumarradha, @kessler-frost or perhaps @AlejandroEsquivel could confirm further...
I'm closing this for now because updating to the develop branch seems to have solved it, but I'll reopen it if it reappears!
I'm re-opening this because for me the issue still exists when using pip install covalent --pre. Interestingly, the runtime in my Jupyter Notebook also shows an unusually large value, and this value matches that in the UI.
For instance, I'll restart the kernel and run the cell, and it'll show 1 hr 45 minutes while running then bump down to the correct value (e.g. 10 s) when it's done. So, the UI is matching what's in my Jupyter Notebook, but the Jupyter Notebook is not correct...
@Prasy12 I remember we faced this when hosting in remote VM as time zone had been hardcoded, but I thought this was fixed, can you take a look at this ?
Will check @santoshkumarradha, the timezone issue was fixed last time.
@RaviPsiog , can you check if you are able to replicate this?
Sure, I will check in all cases and get back to you all.
@Andrew-S-Rosen do you still see this issue? I believe when trying it out on my end, this seems to have been fixed. Lmk either way, thanks!
Everything looks good!
@jimmylism it was actually an issue with VS Code: microsoft/vscode-jupyter#14072 or something similar. In any case, not a Covalent issue to the best of my knowledge.
Aha, thanks for letting us know!
