Processing of output values of the Novogorny sample() function requires long delays, that considerably slow down the effective sample rate.
For example, saving the sample() output in a class attribute requires 10x as long as saving it in a local variable.
However, passing a local array of dimension >1 filled with sample() outputs as an argument to an asynchronous rpc function also causes RTIO underflows and takes considerably longer than passing a local array of the same size with fixed values as argument.
My questions are
(i) why is there a difference in the duration of writing the output to a class attribute or a local variable?
(ii) why is it so slow to pass the local array as an argument?
(iii) is there a way to readout data faster than case 2 in the below example, where data is written to a class attribute with long delays, and if yes, how?
Issues (i) and (ii) might also be unrelated to each other.
Here are two examples to demonstrate and reproduce the two problems:
(The code was run on a Kasli v1.0 controller with the opticlock gateware (commit 46fb5ad) connected to a Novogorny rev1.1)
Thanks for the report. To triage:
Does this also occur with Sampler?
Your measurement strategy (that dt) is broken. You want to do t0 = now_mu(). Otherwise you are wrongly counting whatever the slack was before calling sample().
What's the problem with your second code snippet? As documented, sample() eats all slack. On the second invocation you are bound to get an underflow because 8 µs is not enough.
Your save_value_v2() doesn't work. We don't do attribute writeback before calling an RPC, only when returning from a kernel.
If after all this there is still a difference between an attribute and a local variable the suspect would be attribute writeback.
Ping @vmsch
Sorry for the slow reply.
I tested it with the Sampler, and there is no difference between saving to local or member variables with the sampler.
It still requires a very long delay of 110us when trying to sample repeatedly using self.sampler0.sample(voltages) however.
This delay is only 5*us when using sample_mu. Maybe some people would find it useful to have a comment in the code or documentation, that the difference in speed between the two functions is this large, as this seriously affects the possible sampling rate?
To your other comments:
(2): I think it still gives a roughly accurate value, as I adjusted the delays to just not give an RTIO underflow error, and it runs the loop repeatedly? When using your method I get similar values.
(3): Ok. This was just a hack trying to increase the sampling rate, but since it works with the sampler it is no longer necessary.
(4): Yes
I guess since the Novogorny has been replaced by the sampler and the problem doesn't occur with the sampler this shouldn't be an issue then.
I also met the same question.
The delay is very long(~100us) when using sample(). Is there any way to improve the sampling rate?
The actual sample rate is much faster (see the sample_mu() speed). Sample scaling is limited by floating point speed #535 #1007
