Currently, the Truth Tables kata asks learner to define two new truth tables x2 and x3, but the intention is not clearly specified.
Therefore some description can be added, specifying that :
x2 should be true for : 010,011,101,110
x3 should be true for : 100,101,110,111
Would be happy to send in a fix.
I think that this would give away too much information. The task states that x2 and x3 are projective functions for elementary variables, and provides the on-set for x1 as an example. The readers of this task should determine the on-sets should determine the on-sets for x2 and x3 themselves. One might point to the x2 column in the table above as a hint.
Thanks @msoeken for the clarification
Hi, @msoeken @tcNickolas , I was thinking if we could add a couple of new tasks in Truth Tables kata.
Honestly I was confused about the intension of task1. From the example in the explaination of truth table of  (x1 AND x2), I was expecting a similar kind of task, ie ( (x1 AND x2 AND x3), (x1 OR x2 Or x3) or any descriptive task like either one of x1,x2 and x3 is true).
Also, I felt example of x1 to be a bit misleading. I misunderstood first task as
Given : x1 should be true for : 001,011,101,111
Goal : To specify the truth table for x1 in binary form.
Some of the new tasks which I think can be added
Another suggestion
Also, I think it would be nice if we could explain AND, OR, XOR to the learner by providing the truth tables for 2 bits instead of just asking them to use the bitwise operators. Although, I am not sure whether we would want to do this in the Truth Tables kata, since katas are supposed to provide high level implementation. What are your thoughts about making a tutorial for the same?
Hi @Manvi-Agrawal. I think the two tasks you are mentioning is interesting. I don't quite agree with explaining AND, OR, and XOR as 2-input truth tables instead of the bitwise operators. These are two different things. For the latter, we perform the AND of the two truth tables, which is essentially performing the 2-input AND on each pair of bits. This can be done efficiently on an int by using bitwise operations.
Hi @msoeken. Thanks for the compliment. Also got the point of not explaining the truth tables of AND, OR and XOR as it would complicate the things for the learner.
Hi @msoeken @tcNickolas, can I go ahead with adding these new tasks in the Truth Tables kata? Thinking of raising a new issue and raising a new PR for the same.
@Manvi-Agrawal Are you thinking new tasks should be similar to the first task, so that the truth tables would have to be hardcoded rather than obtained by some manipulations from simpler ones like the later tasks? I agree, this could be helpful to practice converting truth tables to integers before we move on to manipulating those integers. Feel free to send a PR (well, probably after the CI build on this one finishes and we merge it - our CI has been slow today so it might take some time...)
Hi @tcNickolas.  I like your suggestion to extend these two tasks so that they can be obtained by some manipulations from simple truth tables. I was thinking of new tasks so that truth tables would have to be hardcoded. So, maybe after the first task, learner can be asked to implement the these truth tables as hardcoded values. After learning the AND, OR, XOR,NOT, and if then else, the learner can be encouraged to do the same tasks using the TTOr operation.
Also, I am hoping to finish this task by the end of month since I have a couple of pending items.
These specific tasks look like they'd be easier done hardcoded than using elementary operations, so I'd probably just keep them hardcoded.
Sure, no rush - I have plenty of reviews to catch up on! (not to mention everything else...)
Sounds good
