DRTIO link from Master Kasli v2.0 to Satellite Kasli v1.1 breaks down after few minutes of operation.
Master UART log:
Satellite UART log shows no errors before rebooting automatically at around t=3480s above, after which the system was functional again.
Master UART log:
where the Satellite again shows no ERROR and just rebooted automatically around t=280s above.
The Satellite shows no ERRORs and reboots automatically after a while. The master loses connection seemingly out of the blue. The connection is restored once the Satellite rebooted, sometimes with all three DRTIO error flags set (second example above), but most times without any.
We'll post more information as we continue to investigate this issue, but any thoughts and independent reports on this hardware combination would be very helpful.
I've seen something similar with a v1.0 master and a v2.0 satellite. Connection was established and dropped at random intervals. In my case this was resolved by using a different pair of SFP fiber adapters.
Which SFP didn't work? Which one did work? See https://github.com/sinara-hw/meta/wiki/SFP
Which SFP didn't work? Which one did work? See https://github.com/sinara-hw/meta/wiki/SFP
I don't recall the exact model (same SFP we use on all our systems). They were all the same model, though the pair that worked came from a different batch. I assuemd it was just a bad part.
We cannot reproduce this and it's likely a hardware issue. And none of the hardware involved was purchased from us AFAICT.
As supplementary info, we tested a DRTIO setup on ARTIQ-6 (d9b01ed) between a Kasli v1.1 and v2.0, with DAC cable connection. The UART output was monitored.
Kasli v1.1 was the master and the v2.0 was the satellite at first. The FPGA reload was triggered (with artiq_flash start) 9 times on the master, and then the master was power-cycled. This was repeated on the satellite. No unexpected link down (except in-between Kasli reboots) or timeout error was ever observed on the log. Finally, artiq_sinara_tester was run without power-cycling or reloading, and no errors were found.
Then, these two Kasli controller swapped their roles, and the same set of test were performed. Similarly, no related errors were found, i.e. when Kasli v2.0 was master and v1.1 was satellite.
I have not tested the same setup on ARTIQ-7.
