When attempting to monitor jobs that use the qiskit runtime the following error occurrs:
Submit a qiskit runtime job to a full queue, then monitor the job with job_monitor(job)
The job_monitor should not exit with an exception
Remove the assumption that the job object has a queue_position method, as that is not part of the base class.
Hi, Can I work on this issue?
@saktar-unr: sure, if you'd like, I'll assign you.  The issue is that the job here could (in theory) be any JobV1 object, and so we can only require methods from that class.  It looks like this function was written at a time when qiskit-ibmq-provider and qiskit-terra were tightly coupled, so it assumes a type of Job that is no longer a part of Terra, and it hasn't been touched much since.
We'll need to update the function so that it only uses functionality from Terra's JobV1.  I think we can safely remove all IBMQ-specific functionality from this, because qiskit-ibmq-provider provides a very similar function that handles their specific case (Michael: as a more complete solution, you may want to use qiskit.providers.ibmq.job.job_monitor instead, since that's got IBMQ-specific extensions like queue position.)
@jakelishman, Thank you! I have a question on this. As JobV1 (https://qiskit.org/documentation/stubs/qiskit.providers.JobV1.html) does not have the queue_position method, can I just remove the part where it computed the job position in queue? I mean should I just show status.value for all JobStatus (https://qiskit.org/documentation/stubs/qiskit.providers.JobStatus.html). I pushed a commit with those updates. Please let me know if I need to do more changes.
Hello @saktar-unr,
Thanks for your effort in looking into this. Do we have a solution?
It is frustrating to see the total number of jobs in a given backend and not knowing the job position.
Thanks in advance.
Seenivasan
In general, it is up to individual providers to supply Python-space methods to query properties of their queueing system, not core Qiskit.  As mentioned in an above comment, qiskit-ibm-provider supplies its own method, and if that's functionality that qiskit-ibm-runtime doesn't have, then that would be an issue to file at their repository.  That said, their PR Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime#1210 appears to have just recently added similar functionality.
I suspect that job_monitor is likely to be removed from core Qiskit, and left entirely to providers - its existence in the core library is more of a historical artefact.
Thanks @jakelishman for your explanation and the pointer to the runtime functionality.
Will look into it.
