I have been using the f77_interface to interface an MD code to CP2K with great success so far.
The only issue I have run into is that currently I cannot detect if the HF calculation converged or not. Meaning that I usually have to babysit the first couple of iterations + check the whole calculation in the end to make sure that all steps taken were valid.
Is it possible to add a logical or similar that one can pull out of the interface to check if the HF calculation has actually converged, as currently the logical that checks for this is confined to be local in the HF loops?
Hi Juerg,
Thank you for your quick reply.
I tried the keyword you suggested, but sadly it only works internally in CP2K. So it just produces a second warning that the MD run will stop, but in the end I am just doing single point calculations and there is nothing stopping me from calling the calculate_energy_force subroutines again from my code.
I found a slightly hacky solution to the problem however, I check the warning_counter variable from the cp_error_handling module. As the non converging HF calculation will trigger an warning to be added to the program. It is of course not an ideal solution, but for now it fixes my problem.
I can also try to create the interface function, I just need to know where the logical stating if SCF has converged or not should be put, since I am no expert on the cp2k layout. As far as I can tell the qs_scf_env_type could be a good candidate.
@Pibemanden can you possibly share your code (just the cp2k interface would be enough) and some more info (e.g. which compiler and Fortran standard you are using)? The f77_interface is something which has to be refactored eventually and it would be good to know what we would have to provide as an alternative.
@dev-zero Please find the code snippets that I am currently using below.
We are currently using the F90 standard.
As for compilers I have so far made it work with both gnu and intel compilers.
I have separated the use of the interface into 7 steps shown below, please let me know if you have any further questions to their use.
@Pibemanden thank you very much!
