Hi,
the example that appears in the README file does not work. I get the following error:
It works fine if I just change the line where you define the simulator with:
Cheers,
Riccardo
Thanks for opening up this issue @rdisipio. The example in the README works for me based on the latest code from the master branch. Could you please emphasize why that example is not working for you? Are you receiving an error message? Is so, what is the message? Are you receiving incorrect output?
Hi,
I think I just followed the instructions. I created a virtualenv based on python3 and
Then I just tried to execute the code, but I got this error:
As reported, by changing the line where the simulator is defined, I can make it work. Perhaps I should check out the master branch instead? Is it available from pip already? Or do I have to clone the repository?
Thanks,
Riccardo
I confirm. Could reproduce this from the version installed with pip (python3).
$pip freeze | grep cirq
cirq==0.2.dev0
Hi,
I cloned the trunk from git, and now it worked fine with the cirq.Simulator() simulator. Perhaps you want to make it more explicit in the REAME file.
Thanks!
Riccardo
Suggestion: add release notes somewhere. ( I couldn't find an easy way to figure out what version of Cirq has been released to be installed via pip. )
@rdisipio  All the examples on the master branch are up to date with the version on master; no need to add anything to that. The problem arises from different versions of Cirq where each version might not be backwards compatible.
Yep, pip install cirq --upgrade solves this issue.
(Verified that it ups Cirq to 0.4.0)
This issue is really about the README on GitHub potentially being out of sync with the PyPI version, which can cause confusion.
We should be careful about documentation saying pip install cirq and then using dev-version code. And if the readme contains dev-version code, we should probably call that out with bold text. I've been assuming that non-dev-using users go to readthedocs and dev-using users go to github, but that's not a very good approximation.
Hi,
I think the problem is that there are some articles and blog post around that point to the GitHub repository. Hence, I tried to follow the instructions that appear in that README file, not from readthedocs.
Best,
Riccardo
In my opinion, the README should not have dev-version code because the README links to the install instructions that say "use pip install cirq". If the README said
That would be another story.
pip freeze | grep cirq will tell you the installed version
I will close this issue because the disagreement between the readme and the released version is resolved. I'll keep this in mind when changing the readme in the future.
