FileNotFoundError: [WinError 3] The system cannot find the path specified: 'out'

Was going through the analysis tutorial notebook : "4.19 Analyze a transmon using ElmerFEM.ipynb"
Gmsh works properly when called. Installed ElmerFEM and verified it on the terminal.


Also verified environment variables and ELMER_HOME shows up

and added these to PATH.

Just executed the cells in the "4.19 Analyze a transmon using ElmerFEM.ipynb" notebook
The cell should run ElmerGrid on input mesh from Gmsh.
I am not sure.
Hi @sirshisram. This is the kind of error you would get if there is not mesh file for ElmerFEM to run. In the directory where the notebook is located, do you see the file out.msh? If not, what happens when you run the cell with elmer_renderer.export_mesh()?
I believe this is a mesh export issue, but just FYI, I also did a fresh install on a Windows PC with no dependencies previously installed (no anaconda, no qiskit-metal, no gmsh, no ElmerFEM, etc.), and was able to successfully run the notebook. Here are the steps I followed:
lmk if you have any questions.
Hi @diemilio! Thanks for your response!
I did check the directory of the notebook and out.msh is there. For the safer side, I deleted it and rerun the whole notebook again.
Upon executing elmer_renderer.export_mesh(), it does create out.msh. No error comes out.


Yet, it outputs the same error: FileNotFoundError: [WinError 3] The system cannot find the path specified: 'out'
Hi @sirshisram, in the simdata folder, are there elmergrid.txt and elmersolver.txt files?
I might need to take a look at those. Are you subscribed to the Qiskit slack Workspace? Could you please share this issue in the #metal channel in there? and upload those files. Thanks.
Sure @diemilio, thanks.
Btw, simdata folder has only elmergrid.log, along with case.sif and ELMERSOLVER_STARTINFO. It does not have elmersolver.txt.
After a series of discussions in qiskit's #metal slack channel, we have identified that this issue is not related to any of the code within the qiskit-metal repo; it seems to have to do with ElmerGrid, which is part of an external tool (ElmerFEM).
For this reason I think we can close this github issue and continue the discussion in the slack workspace.
sure @diemilio
I completely uninstalled ElmerFEM, and was able to make it work by installing ElmerFEM-gui-mpi-Windows-AMD64, instead of installing ElmerFEM-gui-nompi-Windows-AMD64.
