Hi,
I know the branch is deprecated, but I am studying the implementation to understand what is required to support quantum kems in TLS1.2/DTLS1.2.
So I've built the OQS-OpenSSL_1_0_2-stable version and now I want to verify that a quantum kem is used by the tls key exchange.
Should I just look at the s_client output
In order to verify that a quantum kem was used?
And is there a way to change the quantum kem? From the source code it looks like the default kem maps to a SIKE variant, and I'd like to test with Kyber. My assumption is I just change the definition OQS_KEM_DEFAULT in liboqs?
Here are the commands I used:
My assumption is I just change the definition OQS_KEM_DEFAULT in liboqs?
Probably right. But we removed the concept of default algs quite some time ago from liboqs, so you'd (also) only be able to use pretty dated versions of liboqs.
May I ask what is your rationale to dive into such old versions of the code (and TLS)?
As I previously stated in #454 I am interested in the support of quantum key exchanges in DTLS.
As a first step: I wanted to check if quantum key exchanges is supported in DTLS1.2 with the implementation in OQS-OpenSSL_1_0_2-stable. And it looks like DTLS is supported in this old revision if what I posted is the correct way to verify that a connection was established with a quantum kem.
Now I'd like to understand the best way to achieve the overall goal of DTLS support. I'd like to hear from you if you think there's something I need to know? Otherwise I will continue studying past and present implementations to get up to speed on the OpenSSL implementation.
If memory serves, we never worked on or tested DTLS, even in this old branch. Maybe it works, maybe it doesn't.
As for seeing if a post-quantum key exchange is being used, you can use use some of the s_client and s_server command line options to print out what algorithms end up being used, and you can also inspect the connection in Wireshark; though an unmodified Wireshark will not recognize the algorithm identifiers used, it should still at least say something like "unknown algorithm" which would be an indication that post-quantum was being used.
