Dataset_db.pyon intermittently stops syncing; dataset entries revert to old values after restarting artiq.
It seems that the dataset_db.pyon file usually syncs regularly with the data stored in the datasets in the artiq dashboard (as indicated by the fact that 'date modified' time for this file matches the current computer time), and that this reflects the fact that dataset entries with persist = true have been saved. However, we observe that sometimes the dataset_db.pyon file will stop syncing, and when this occurs we can no longer make changes to the dataset that persist after closing and re-opening artiq. We can get dataset_db.pyon to sync regularly again by restarting artiq.
I haven't found a consistent way to trigger this problem, but it seems to have been triggered once by trying to run an experiment (via keyboard shortcut) that hadn't yet been scanned during a repository scan, and once it coincided with a fitting error. At other times it doesn't coincide with an error at all.
Changes to the dataset for entries with persist = true should persist after closing and re-opening artiq. This happens most of the time.
Changes to the dataset are sometimes lost after closing and re-opening artiq. This seems related to dataset_db.pyon not syncing.
Anything in the logs? Try turning on debug output (artiq_master -v)
And if that doesn't turn up anything, add debug print() calls to the code that writes to that file.
We aren't explicitly writing to dataset_db.pyon. I'm inferring that artiq is frequently updating this file to store the current values of dataset entries with persist = True. Is this not the case?
This is the case, see artiq.master.databases.DatasetDB._do.
I'm basing this guess on the fact that, until dataset_db.pyon 'disconnects,' I see that its 'date modified' time always matches the current computer time, even without me interacting with artiq/changing a dataset entry.
Based on this symptom it sounds likely that the above-mentioned asyncio task raises an exception and then terminates, stopping the updates.
With a recent ARTIQ version, #1359 (now part of sipyco) should give you more information.
