This should be an identity operator, no?

I suspect that the problem is in the BSgate, which is the one you use to define the S2gate (I checked the single-mode squeezing and it seems OK to me)

Thanks @ziofil. We will take a look.
Do you see the same behaviour for all three backends, or is it backend-specific?
Also, are you able to produce a bug without using the extract_unitary function? Just trying to minimize the (possible) sources of error
This is the only backend that I checked
I just ran @ziofil's minimal example --- looking at state.cov() for the Gaussian backend, and state.ket() for the Fock backend with a cutoff of 4, in both cases my output is the vacuum state
Yes because |0,0> is mapped to |0,0>. Try with |1,3> or |3,1> It's not even unitary there
It's a bit unusual that it would give incorrect results for all three backends, considering there are two quite different representations being used 🤔
The Gaussian backend cannot take as input |1,3>. I doubt that for valid inputs it gives wrong results.
@ziofil I have the working hypothesis that the results you're seeing are numerical truncation issues. If I run this example:
I can confirm that the resulting density matrix is unphysical (not normalized). Specifically, the density matrix elements [1,1,3,3] and [3,3,1,1] are non-zero; they have values of 0.25. This leads to a trace of 0.5.
However, a simulation cutoff dimension of 4 means that only Fock states (0,1,2,3) in each mode will be captured. The (0,4) and (4,0) Fock states, which are possible to populate from these input states, will be missed.
However, if I rerun the same example with cutoff_dim=5, the resulting density matrix is what we expect: only the [1,1,3,3] element is nonzero, and equal to one.
Are you seeing the same issue in a case where there is no ambiguity about the cutoff dimension relative to the inputs?
Exactly, for cutoff=4 amplitudes of up to 3 photons per mode should be there, but for |1,3> it gives the wrong numbers. (for cutoff=5 see |4,1>). I mean, just look at the unitary.
I suspect that it's a truncation issue (multiplying truncated matrices not in the LU order): this could happen when the two beamsplitters (the one with theta and the one with -theta) are multiplied together. But they are not in the lower-triangular upper-triangular order (like instead when we have  exp(a^dagger) and then exp(a)), so we see truncation issues which then propagate to the definition of the 2-mode squeezing, which you (correctly) represent as BS(-pi/4)S(z)xS(-z)BS(pi/4).
Do you agree?
Yes, that's my assessment. A single beamsplitter already "overflows" the cutoff dimension. Adding the reverse unitary doesn't correct this (but we could also merge gates before running program to fix that).
But I wouldn't classify this as a bug, more of an issue with numerical parameter choice.
Yes, the BSgate is not wrong. The 2-mode squeezing matrix elements are wrong, though. A possible solution would be to redefine S2gate on its own with some disentangling formula rather than via the BSgate.
If only we had the matrix elements of a general gaussian transformation 😁
Two mode-squeezing is implemented as passive beamsplitters and energy-changing squeezing operations. The single-mode squeezing gate itself causes numerical errors (even without any beamsplitters) if squeezing is too high relative to cutoff. Again, this as a truncation problem.
Closing this particular issue, as it seems not to be a bug, but rather due to a known drawback/tradeoff of numeric simulation
@ziofil: We do have the matrix elements of general Gaussian transformation
