The following backtrace occurs when running make CXX=clang++ test-tweedledum on the latest master branch (i.e., e1d1333):
@jmbr Does this occur on every test run? There is a very small but non-zero chance that numerical instability leads to a bad matrix somewhere along the way. (I cannot reproduce the above.)
That's interesting. I just ran it five times in a row and it happened every time. I've recompiled QVM as well after pulling the latest changes and the error persists.
@jmbr Interesting. I assume you've done make clean? Out of interest, what is the githash of your tweedledum submodule?
Yeah, this is after a make clean. The git hash of my tweedledum submodule is 8de4d5bbf1b96d15c0e7f66a443fdd50f3509c09
Maybe the next step is to blow away the cache. Grasping at straws! make clean-cache
Cleaned the cache and repeated with the same effect. FWIW, the output of
is SBCL 1.5.1.398-d5bbd32
@jmbr if you roll back your quilc to before e1d1333 do you still see the error?
Reverted to 3a5c1f5 but to no avail.
Another thing I did not mention is that I'm on a Linux system with kernel version 4.4.0-28-generic (as reported by uname).
I should be able to debug this problem myself later on when I'm more familiar with our code base.
I could also be due to lapack/blas versions. You can find the lapack/blas libs that are known to work in the sdk download: https://downloads.rigetti.com/qcs-sdk/forest-sdk-linux-deb.tar.bz
That might be it (not sure because I get an access denied error when I try to fetch the URL above). I use OpenBLAS.
As an additional data point, I'm also on Linux but was unable to reproduce. I only ran the full test-tweedledum target once, but I let it run through test-compiler-hook a handful of times. Here are my relevant package versions.
I am testing on master at commit ce80998.
As a side note, not sure if it's my imagination but my cpu fans sound a lot less like a helicopter landing in my backyard when running the compiler hook tests with tweedledum enabled. This is a welcome change because my laptop has thermal problems and shuts down if it overheats. On behalf of my poor old overworked CPUs: well done lads, owe you a 🍺
Thanks for checking it out, @appleby.
Is libtweedledum mandatory (except for maybe windows platforms) or just a convenience that we use whenever it's available? I think it might pay off to write a CMake (or autoconf or whatever) configuration script to take care of finding the right compiler, installation directories, etc. If that's interesting I can go ahead and do it (I'd vote for CMake in that case).
notmgsk will know better than me, but my understanding is that tweedledum is not required, but is a nice optimization that speeds up operations with "permutation gates" (or whatever you call them) considerably.
I don't have much of an opinion on the CMake/autoconf question, but I guess the main requirement would be to get it to integrate seamlessly with the ASDF build. There is also the minor concern of introducing a new build-time dependency on CMake, but I already have it installed so I am naturally unconcerned :).
We should treat tweedledum as mandatory. Once #276 is merged, it will be mandatory. It is a very useful optimization to the compiler, as @appleby has pointed out.
As to the CMake suggestion, I don't have an opinion either way. I'm not sure what benefit it would provide, but I also haven't used CMake much. If you think it will be useful and is worth the effort, go for it. Can't speak for the others, of course.
@jmbr still seeing this?
Unfortunately, yes (with latest master branch). I don't see it with the Macbook pro, though, and it may very well be that I have a peculiar configuration in this system.
Is this still alive?
Haven't seen it in a long time. But then again, I mostly use quilc in macOS laptop. I think we can close since no other user has raised the problem.
