The sweep should work normally
TypeError, because dond is trying to set the integer parameter to a float value.
Tested on qcodes v0.33.
@mgunyho would it be a decent workaround for you to pass a numpy array of ints to ArraySweep as opposed to list of ints? the challange is that whatever you pass gets transofmed into a numpy array, and i guess list of ints also gets transformed to an array of floats.
The same happens if I pass it as a numpy array (either np.array([1,2,3]) or more explicitly np.array([1,2,3], dtype=np.int)). It also doesn't matter whether the float or int array is first. I didn't check what dond does internally but seems like it's coercing all of the arrays to the same datatype. Maybe using a pandas dataframe (or separate arrays for each param value) would work better with heterogeneous types.
For now my workaround was to just do a for-loop over the int-value (so one measurement for each) because I didn't have that many of them, but that's not very good in the long run.
I think the issue is that do_nd bundles all the setpoints into one array (look at the implementation of _flatten_setpoint_values
I will see if I can have a look at that as part of #4325
@mgunyho I have added a test to #4325 based on your original issue confirming that this has been resolved by the refactor in that pr. I have also clarified the types of the setpoints in LinSweep clarifying that this can only generate float setpoints
So the test is now
I actually had something slightly different in mind with this issue. My problem originally was that I was trying to do a 2D sweep where one of the axes is an integer, and another one is float. The MWE is missing the parameter to be measured, this is what it should have been:
But in any case, the issue is indeed fixed by the refactor.
While testing this, I noticed another bug: the original MWE, without the acquisition_param, where I accidentally forgot to add the parameter to be acquired causes an UnboundLocalError:
I suppose if the *args are only Sweep:s, and none are parameters, there should be an error message indicating that the measurement parameters are missing. (This is on version 0f54cf2)
To clarify, here's a failing test for this:
Thanks I agree that we should give a better error message when there is no parameter to measure.
