There's something I don't understand and I didn't find a better way to report. I'm trying to run some experiments remotely on ibmqx4 and sometimes I can but other times they get stuck on the "running" status forever. That was strange enough, but then I closed my terminal, went away and came back in 4 hours or so, re-establish contact with quantum experience, loaded ibmqx4 backend and checked my jobs backend.jobs() were still running! This is a simple circuit, it can't be running for so long! What's going on? I also tried to cancel the jobs but it doesn't seem to work.
Furthermore, while I'm still in the queue expecting for my job to run, I see that sometimes my position goes up, as if someone passed me in the queue. Is this also normal?
@bellafrak thank you for reporting this. What you are seeing as RUNNING should actually be QUEUED. We are aware of this and trying to fix it in the remote backends. Your job eventually finished right?
It could be that your queue position increases as some higher priority (e.g. admin) jobs are sent to the device. This is hopefully not a frequent occurrence.
Thank you. It didn't finish yet! I'm testing this with job.done. If what I'm seeing as RUNNING should be QUEUED I wonder why the "final position in the queue" (i.e. running) takes so long to finish. The queue position is steadily going down but then when it's my turn I see my job as "running" forever... I'm consuming all my units and getting no results. :(
Can you tell me the job.id()?
This is from a more recent attempt which got stuck as well: '5b8025aec0a7db00419ef380'.
Thanks. We are localizing the source of the error in the backend. Seems to be a miscommunication at the API level. The device does not hang, only some particular jobs do not get the signal that their result is ready and thus keep thinking that they are RUNNING.
Thank you! Do you have any other hint of what it could be or how I could solve this? The problem persists on my side...
@bellafrak this is fixed now. it was an issue with the queuing that caused some jobs to be lost. All should work fine now.
ajavadia, same issue (jobs got stuck at running even if next jobs are done) here:
