Since the upgrade to gcc-10 our convention test is failing and unfortunatelly neither #1009 nor #1017 resolved the issue.
Hence, I dug in and found that make ARCH=local_warn VERSION="psmp" has trouble compiling dbcsr_mpiwrap.F. Apparently,  the -pedantic flag is triggering a broader analysis during which gcc notices some argument mismatches:
Switching to -Wpedantic or adding -fallow-argument-mismatch doesn't help either.
Well, as you know, that module is actually a (almost) copy of the CP2K one. So, this is a problem in CP2K too:

Can you confirm that?
For the DBCSR point of view, we can remove those two functions, they are not used (only there because of legacy), but it would be good to find a solution...
No, I didn't check CP2K's version. I somehow assumed it was already fixed as part of #962. However, that seems to not be the case. So, you're right - we have to fix both copies.
For the DBCSR point of view, we can remove those two functions
Unfortunately, it's not just those two functions. Here is the complete list:



It compiles with -Wno-pedantic or just without the -pedantic flag.
@oschuett Do you think these are all true errors? At least some of the errors seem to me false positives, since routines like mpi_allreduce can be called with different types for the first argument.
It compiles with -Wno-pedantic or just without the -pedantic flag.
Yes, dropping -pedantic is probably the easiest solution. The question is what kind of issue will then remain undetected? The documentation mentions e.g. Fortran extensions. Nevertheless, the remaining flags include -Wall -Wextra -Wsurprising, which probably caught most past issues.
routines like mpi_allreduce can be called with different types for the first argument.
I'm actually not sure what's at fault here: Gfortran, MPI, or mpiwrap.
We claim by using the flag -std2008 full Fortran2008 compliance and enforce a -pedantic check for this, but at the same time, we still USE mpi and not USE mpi_f08 with new the MPI interfaces. Either we upgrade our MPI interfaces to mpi_f08, which would be a major code change (volunteers?), or we drop the flag -pedantic.
I vote to remove pedantic. Question is: can we do it only for the mpiwrap file?
I have a plan to update DBCSR to mpi_f08, however it is a long project (need to refactor the entire file).
Alright, then let's drop -pedantic until we've figured out the migration to mpi_f08 (#1030).
