Hi,
I was wondering if it would be possible to make the noise estimation (coherence times) available for custom circuits?
If need be, I could also try to implement this and send a pull request.
Best,
Philipp
Hi Philipp, Thank you for your message. Our colleague Sai @saipavanc is currently working on this. Sai would you like to comment/update?
@PhilippAumann, thank you for your request. I have been working on including coherence times in the Circuit module.  But, as there is no general expression yet to evaluate quasiparticle noise for a qubit (for instance even transmon), we decided on not adding the feature to circuit module. We are working on it, and will surely include into the main release in the future.
But, if you would want to look at coherence times for a general circuit feel free to explore and use the branch spc-noise. I have implemented the coherence times for the rest of the noise channels, except the quasiparticle noise. This branch has a few more changes and bug fixes when compared to the master branch, but for the end user its mostly identical except for the following change when Hierarchical Diagonalization (HD) is used. After any of the circuit parameters are changed, call Circuit.update() to internally make all the necessary changes across the subsystems. But, this is not needed if HD is not used.
Finally, to get the coherence times for instance in Fluxonium, you can do the following:
The list of noise channels can be viewed by calling:
Now, the coherence times can be evaluated for different noise channels using
or tphi using
The effective $T1$ and $T2$ can be evaluated using
Do know that this is not the final release and I might make more changes in the future. For now, the coherence times that are returned agree with the ones calculated using scqubits. In the meanwhile, please feel free to let me know about any bugs you may encounter.
Thank you for your answer! I will try using the spc-noise branch for now - that looks quite promising!
Regarding the quasiparticle noise. Are there any arguments against using equation (136) of this paper: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1106.0829.pdf ?
Implementing this in the flux basis is quite straight-forward. For the charge basis this would call for implementing it in a single charge basis instead of the usual $2e$ charge basis.
We don't currently, but we are still trying to understand the theory well behind the expression before we implement it into the Circuit module. Hopefully, we will be able to complete the noise module in near future.
