e.g.
Mismatch between gateware (3.0.dev+1074.g8c8203ef) and software (3.0.dev+1074.g8c8203ef7) versions
Probably related to 0d0ddf2.
This is just a length issue. Why make it less selective?
Is there any drawback to making it less selective? The advantage is obviously to make it less sensitive to python packaging snafu.
And "just" a length issue, sure. Many bugs that take days to figure out are "just" a one-line fix, right?
Yes. The drawback is that it doesn't work anymore. If sensitivity is the problem, then getting rid of the version check entirely would be the answer.
From what I can see a length mismatch on the comparison should be resolved with storing the correct strings and not a softening of the comparison, right? Fix and issue appear to be orthogonal.
Since we pragmatically chose to not have a versioned gateware/runtime/software interface, the only thing that reminds one that there can be a mismatch is this warning. And just warning on release number mismatch is not the dominant class of bugs we have been catching so far with this.
About the "just": That's certainly possible if there are other causes for this issue that were not mentioned in these commits and this issue.
How about embedding the complete git hash instead, and truncating it only for display?
Wouldn't that remove the '.dirty' flag as well and prevent eyeballing the mismatch severity using the version numbers?
Other than that: comparing just based on the git hash and then using those "package version strings" (maybe in addition to the full hash) for warning display would be great.
No, I mean, complete git hash instead of truncated git hash, so that we don't get these length issues in comparison.
We were already removing .dirty because it generates a lot of noise (have a few uncommitted modifications laying around, and it triggers).
I honestly prefer that noise over having to (and forgetting to) walk each user and myself through git status/git diff just to be sure that there are not "a few uncommitted modifications lying around".
Aren't there more annoying things than that bit of noise?
