Review for vprusso/toqito
In general, it is an remarkable package, with a lot of resources ranged from basic lineal algebra methods for quantum mechanics, to the implementation of a plethora of quantum measurements, and the development of nonlocal games studies. The package denotes a lot of work, constant planning and implementation of features, as seen in the issues raised on their Github repo.
As stated in the paper, the package intended for quantum information audience, so, no much physical exploration is given across the methods and functions, instead, their logic and mathematical features are polished.
Nice powerful features I found in the package:
A complete implementation of the basic and advanced mathematical methods to doing basic quantum mechanics developments and checks
As far as I know, there's not packages who provide such quantities of options to quantum states properties and measurements, some are really useful.
The package promotions as "quantum information related computer science," and this is clear that we have a work intended more for CS, but in my own view, the package is enough powerful to carry on works on quantum optics.
The documentation is really great and complete. The presence of a dedicated webpage for the package is a plus.
Some minor issues of my own usage of the package:
I think the summary of the paper can be improved, since the scope of JOSS is in part provide resources for the non-specialist who seek to known the package. Maybe extend what are the nonlocal games on an extra line.
Minor typos in the documentation (It denotes that was a human who do the work)
In the paper a typo: tranpose -> transpose
I had some problems with the use of cvxpy library at first start, this because it was not installed on my environment, and, it seems, it requires a carefully procedure, first lapack and blas libraries, then cvxpy. I don't know if this happen to everyone, but maybe a clarification about this could be great, since cvxpy is at the core of the package.
Running pytest cov returns a coverage of nearly 95%, this traduces on 56 fails.
I receive errors from the Lower bounding the quantum value of the CHSH game example tutorial

Hi @rurz,
Thank you for the kind words on the toqito software package (and apologies for my belated response to this thread)!
Based on your great comments, I've created the following pull request: #51
Minor typos in the documentation (It denotes that was a human who do the work)
I did my best to comb through the docs (tutorials, auto-generated docs from comments in functions, etc.) to try to eliminate some of the typos and spelling errors I came across. I'm sure there will inevitably be some that I've missed!
In the paper a typo: tranpose -> transpose
Nice catch. Fixed in #50.
I receive errors from the Lower bounding the quantum value of the CHSH game example tutorial
Right, this was also something found and fixed in #50. The tutorial examples were not updated when the rest of the code was updated, so that was my fault there.
This last error repeats in the FFL game. How this errors can be solved to proceed to check what the tutorial claims?
Similar issue as to the one above--fixed in #50, and my fault that I did not update the tutorials.
Let me know if this satisfies your review, and thank you again for taking the time and making the effort to improve the toqito package!
Let me know if this satisfies your review, and thank you again for taking the time and making the effort to improve the toqito package!
Hi @vprusso, I'm sorry for the late response, it was holiday season at Mexico.
Great, I see a lot of work done in the #50. Let me recheck again, and I find something to improve, I will notify you. I think two or three days must be enough. Anticipating congrats for the amazing package you have here. 👍🏻
A belated happy holiday season to you and yours, @rurz!
Do let me know if you stumble on anything that should be improved, and thank you yet again for your insightful and well-written set of initial comments!
Do let me know if you stumble on anything that should be improved, and thank you yet again for your insightful and well-written set of initial comments!
Hi again, @vprusso. I have rechecked my initial statements of this review, and I see that the work done in #50 neatly solves the issues. Congrats for such effort. Currently, I have no complains about installation, functionality and documentation of the package, neither the companion paper. I check this review as done, and you can close the thread. I will complete my review on JOSS repo.
By the way, I nice addition would be a translation to Spanish of the documentation. I would be pleasure to contribute in that front.
@rurz that's great to hear thank you yet again for your awesome input on the toqito project!
And of course, I would warmly recommend any contribution to allow the toqito project to be accessible to a wider audience!
