Description of the issue
ASCII art of circuit print shifted on my Japanese based WIN10
Circuit:
How to reproduce the issue
My OS is WIN10, using Japanese based system would cause the ASCII art shifted due to the "─" is not using "-"
put long logs in details blocks like this
Cirq version
You can get the cirq version by printing cirq.__version__. From the command line:
"0.11.0.dev"
Thanks for opening @freezemusic - this was within Colab right?
you're right, that was within Colab
From the diagram that you inserted it is hard to tell what's happening (I added the code block around it and it seems fine). This might be a font issue in your browser / colab - not sure - but it would be great if we could repro it.



It sounds like your fixed-width font is not actually fixed-width for these characters.
In the Colab FAQ, it notes that you can go to chrome://settings/fonts to check which fixed-width font you're currently using and/or change it to a different one. Note that this will change your default fixed-width font throughout Chrome, not just Colab; I'm not 100% certain what else it would affect.
What fixed-width font does it list for you? Mine is "Cousine".
Thanks for replying, mine is "Consolas"
Thanks for replying, mine is "Consolas"
Tried to reproduce the issue on US-based WIN10 with Consolas, but didn't see a shift. It seems like this issue is specific to the Japanese WIN10 - maybe a half-width vs. full width font issue?
One other note: in US-based WIN10, Consolas has a distinctive "hook" at the tip of the letter r that is missing in the images above. There may be something else we're missing here.
I managed to repro this on an English Win10 but by setting the primary language of chrome itself to Japanese!

Workaround
This means that a possible (though unfortunate) workaround @freezemusic is to switch in chrome://settings to English - add language and move to top and/or enable "display Google chrome in this language":

Towards a solution
I wonder if we could detect this in colab, we could then tie it into the diagram drawer? We'll have to experiment a little bit with it. Other options is trying to force a different font somehow...this seems like Colab specific but I'm also curious whether this happens in Jupyter notebooks.
