Running artiq 3.6 with a KC705 at NIST, we get errors every ~10-20 minutes where communication between core device and PC fails and the current kernel is ejected.  Usually the next experiment submitted is OK.  Today it's gone farther and will not receive new kernels.  Rebooting the FPGA fixes the issue.  Traceback below:
Anything in the board log/UART?
Sounds like #986 . doesn't look like it was cherry-picked for release-3
It was cherry-picked (9589dec), but the fix also contained a LLVM update and caused #1007. There has been no release since.
@sbourdeauducq haven't looked at the board log or UART, will do so when the event repeats.  Does this need to wait for a release until #1007 is addressed or can it come out earlier?
Another traceback, for reference.  This has not caused a total crash requiring an FPGA reboot, just killed the currently running kernel, exiting with the error message below:
Last few minutes of the corelog record downloaded here:
This "malformed packet" deal tends to show up often...
Does this need to wait for a release until #1007 is addressed or can it come out earlier?
You can try a release-3 dev package.
Another corelog dump, in case it is useful @whitequark.  I started it from a bit before when the error occurred.
This looks like the culprit:
There have been some fixes upstream in smoltcp, I'll port ARTIQ to a newer version of it.
I've updated smoltcp in master, please retest.
@dhslichter
Note that the potential fix isn't in release-3 yet.
@sbourdeauducq @whitequark sorry, too many things on the plate here.  I will try to get this tested this week, would be nice to have the fix.
@dhslichter Is the problem still present? It should be fixed in release-3 as well now.
@dhslichter It takes us a lot of effort to fix those things; can you please test?
@sbourdeauducq sorry, Jonas Keller has tested it here and we didn't see any more of the previous communications issues.  Let's close.
Good, thanks!
Will update/reopen if this rears its head again, but we will call it good for now.
