In the last release of Terra, the classical function compiler has been added which uses the tweedledum library to compile a classical function to a circuit. This compiler yields much more efficient circuits than the Oracle components LogicalExpressionOracle and TruthTableOracle.
Oracle for the logical expression not a or (b and c):
yields
whereas
yields
The truth table oracle for a xor b:
yields
whereas
yields
Since the Grover algorithm now works on circuits as oracles, I think we should remove these oracle classes. Alternatively, if there's some convenient functionality we want to keep, we should either
(1) augment the classical compiler to allow that functionality, or if not possible
(2) replace the oracle components by QuantumCircuits that leverage the classical function compiler internally.
How does it do with the 3-Sat example?
Is the Truth Table function able to alleviate the memory issue here qiskit-community/qiskit-aqua#1186 such that it can be done.
If the functionality is able to cover what the existing Oracles do and more efficiently then it certainly seems like its a good case to deprecate the current ones in favor of this. Can you confirm the existing Oracle capabilities are covered? And as you suggest utilizing this to build out the circuits internally, if there are interface aspects that need to be preserved, is an option.
The 3-SAT example from the readme sample with the current Oracle is (again transpiled with optimization_level=3):
versus Tweedledum:
And it seems to work with Grover's algorithm, though it needs some pre-processing to convert the bit-flip oracle to a phase-flip and define the good_state function.
In regards of
augment the classical compiler to allow that functionality, or if not possible
another alternative is to provide some utility capabilities here to facilitate building out oracles, such as parsing the cnf and giving back the classical function, same for a truthtable as otherwise it looks awkward to build out the more bits there given the above example of an equivalent. Maybe this nets out to be similar to custom classes for getting a circuit like is there today.
I was discussing with @a-matsuo and we we're thinking of library circuits in Aqua that did this job, like
and possibly
We have a document on that that I'm happy to share!
Since this is highly related to use in the algorithms I labelled it that way though the resultant objects are likely library entities.
See #5656
Closed via #5830.
