In recent PRs that provided ordering of parameters and anonymous assignment of parameters in gradient framework, the new class ParameterView was implemented.
ParameterView was supposed to be deprecated, but with automatic ordering of parameters, it simplifies multiple parts of opflow.
Proof of concept here: #6074
Summary:
Sorting would be provided automatically by one class, no need to worry about it in different modules.
Hi @ewinston @kdk
you might want to take a look or comment on this issue to move it forward.
I like the idea of having an object to keep track of the parameters. Concerning your points from above:
Another question we should address is:
Hi there.
and
It’s not only performance. By subclassing set, you get all set methods for free.
Sure, you can subclass MappingView and use set internally to implement all set methods yourself, but it’s just more lines of code with no benefit.
I don't think ParameterView should be a set or have the set methods. Right now they are just there to keep our 3-month deprecation policy 🙂
There is a lot going on here. Here's one thing: The code above
reveals a bug. Copies of Parameter('c') are inserted 10000 times to the list. And the search is O(n). This is the source of the poor performance.
I think it'd be better to postpone implementation details until we decide on how we want to proceed with this. As you're saying there's a lot going on and we should have a plan before moving along 🙂
@jlapeyre This is because Parameter.__eq__ compares UUIDs, not names (maybe it should raise error for the same name, but different UUID?)
You will get same outcome on the set:
The poor performance is because ParameterView is storing parameters in the list and checks if parameter is in, instead using set.
However, there is a bug in ParameterView.update:
This works on Parameters, which is just wrapper around set.
@molar-volume As, I wrote that comment, I tried inserting Parameters in set and saw the same thing. I assumed that your implementation did something to get around it. But, it now looks like the difference in performance is that before insertion, one does either a linear search or a hash table look up.
There is another efficiency issue I could mention. But, I notice that @Cryoris has restricted comments to the biggest design issues. I agree with this. In particular it is very unusual to allow indexing into a set, (or ordered set). I'm suspicious of a design that requires it.
It makes sense to me that one should not be able to create two Parameters with the same name in the same "context" (suitably defined). So creating a Parameter implies a symbol table. But, this idea belongs in some other issue.
@jlapeyre In context of QuantumCircuit there exists ParameterTable that raises Name conflict on adding parameter, but not in OperatorBase.
SortedSet implements __getitem__ and other sequence methods as well, but I am not well-versed in that area and I trust you on this 👍
