Hi,
I have a problem when trying to visualize the quantum circuit with the command "q.png".
I have installed ImageMagick, Perl, and Ghostscript as explained in the tutorial: https://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/qutip/qutip-notebooks/blob/master/examples/quantum-gates.ipynb
However, I still receive the next error message:
FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'qcirc.png'
The pdf file is generated but for some reason, is not converted to a .png file.
Thanks a lot,
Ariel
Hi @ariels1234, here is a more detailed guide on how to install those additional packages https://qutip-qip.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installation.html#additional-software-for-plotting-circuits. (It is for the separate package qutip-qip, but the circuit plotting part is the same.)
Do you have a valid version of pdflatex with packages like qcircuit and pdfcrop installed?
Hi, thank you for replying!
I have downloaded everything necessary as written there and also tried to change the policy.xml file of ImageMagick, but it would not help, and I still get the same error:
FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'qcirc.png'
I have a valid version of pdflatex with the packages qcircuit and pdfcrop installed. I verified it through MikTex.
After running, I obtained the latex file and the pdf file, but it is not converted to png file for some reason.
Thanks,
Ariel
Just to make sure, but I guess you already restarted the console after everything is installed?
If you got the pdf, then the LaTeX part is working. Have you tried to use the ImageMagick command to convert the pdf to png yourself?
Yes, I have restarted the console after the installation.
I tried it now, through the command prompt and it worked fine, the qcirc.pdf file was converted to qcirc.png and I could open it. So I am not sure what is the origin of the problem when running the command q.png in python...
Thanks!
I have found the problem. I have used the package qutip.qip instead of qutip-qip that you suggested in the first comment.
Once I used qutip-qip it worked perfectly!
Thank you very much @BoxiLi I really appreciate it!!
Glad to see that it worked!
It is a bit strange though to see that one of them works while the other does not. qutip.qip and qutip-qip should be exactly the same for the circuit plotting part.
