[Originally raised in discord.]
Any Qiskit (and presumably other frontends) circuit with idle qubits produces unexpected behavior in round-trip (Qiskit -> Cirq -> Qiskit) conversions - namely, the idle qubits are discarded, causing operations to appear out of order or on the wrong qubits. E.g.:
This happens because a Cirq circuit is a collection of operations; since there is no operation on the q_1 qubit, there is no q_1 qubit:
(Note: In converting back to Qiskit, the qubits get renamed to q_0 and q_1.)
This is another fundamental difference between certain packages and, in my opinion, should be handled as a special case after atomic conversions in 
Namely, adding a check if there are idle qubits and re-inserting them if so.
Looking for one maintainer LGTM on proposed fix and/or alternate proposed fixes.
LGTM though am adding other maintainers to get a quick review from folks closer
LGTM as well. I am curious if "Frontend -> Cirq -> Frontend" conversions for frontends other than Qiskit also cause an ordering issue. Out of scope for this issue, but it would be worth:
LGTM. I am not sure this is a priority0 issue (high-priority label) but the proposed fix seems reasonable to me.
I agree with @vprusso that a similar issue may also happen for other frontends. The fix would be in any case frontend-specific I guess.
I am curious if "Frontend -> Cirq -> Frontend" conversions for frontends other than Qiskit also cause an ordering issue.
The idle qubits issue is certainly there since that's a Cirq thing. Haven't seen ordering issues for other packages besides Qiskit, but its possible and should be tested more.
I am not sure this is a priority0 issue (high-priority label) but the proposed fix seems reasonable to me.
I'll move to p1. It's definitely buggy behavior, but not common usage.
As discussed in the Mitiq call, @Rahul-Mistri will look into this. Thanks!
@Rahul-Mistri do you still have time to work on this one? If not that's all good!
@rmlarose Could we chat sometime about this issue? I just have a few questions to ask the proposed fix
Sure, can you join the Mitiq meeting today @Rahul-Mistri?
