I was going through the escape rooms and I got stuck in room 15/16 level I .
I am asked to create a state of the statevector [0.924,0.383j] using two gates, with only Ry and Rz gates available.
I have not solved it yet, but just using the definitions of Qiskit documentation Ry and Rz it seems it is not possible to create such a statevector with just two gates.
I guess that either the solution is ok up to a global phase or the definitions of Ry and Rz are not the same as Qiskit.

Thanks for the clarification.
This is what I have tried: Two Rz or two Ry will not do. It can be either RyRz or RzRy. Doing first a Rz and then Ry, will not work as R_z is just providing a global phase.
Lastly, Ry and then Rz will also not work, as Ry returns a real statevector, say [n,m] with n,m reals. Followed by Rz, it will return a complex phase to both, something like: [exp(-1j*y/2)n, exp(1j*y/2)m], there is no way to provide a real angle y such that the 1th component is imaginary and the 0th component is real.
…
To clarify, the implementation in QiskitBlocks of Rz gate is a simple Z rotation, not a Qiskit P (phase gate).
…
On Thu, Apr 22, 2021, at 8:01 AM, quantumAnsatz wrote: I was going through the escape rooms and I got stuck in room 15/16 level I . I am asked to create a state of the statevector [0.924,-0,0.383j] using Ry, Rz gates. I have not solved it yet, but just using the definitions of Qiskit documentation Ry https://qiskit.org/documentation/stubs/qiskit.circuit.library.RYGate.html and Rz https://qiskit.org/documentation/stubs/qiskit.circuit.library.RZGate.html it seems it is not possible to create such a statevector. I guess that either the solution is ok up to a global phase or the definitions of Ry and Rz are not the same as Qiskit. — You are receiving this because you are subscribed to this thread. Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub <#22>, or unsubscribe https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/ACLZ5WTFIW72LJWPC4CK6E3TKAFYHANCNFSM43MJ5LPQ.
Thanks again for the suggestion.
So I toggled noclip on (by modifying  minetest.conf). I went into room 16/16 level I.
I actually could solve room 16 but up to a global phase of -1 (see restrictions below).
Maybe the puzzles with Rz blocks were thought as U1 or phase blocks initially? This is why I think that it is so:
I will retry room 15 later.
Great!
A phase block would be awesome!
Meanwhile, a quick fix would be to slightly change the statevectors demanded in room 15 (can this be modified easily? I could try to do it).
I just finished level II, no issues there,  I like it very much. Thank you for this amazing game!
Edit: I can change the solution vector, but I do not know where the positions of the wall blocks are defined.
I was also unable to solve escape room I-15 so far. Due to the many possible combinations it could be the case that I didn't find the correct combination yet.
@Hiradur If this helps, you can replace the measurement block with a third rotation block and solve the puzzle. As I wrote above, I cannot envision a solution with with only two slots for the blocks given (and with only half rotations of the gates).
I tried to solve it with 3 blocks but could not find the right combination. However, through creative mode I gave myself an S gate which allowed me to solve the puzzle quite easily in combination with an Ry block. Perhaps the S gate was supposed to be used here instead of an Rz gate?
BTW:
So I toggled noclip on (by modifying minetest.conf).
There is an easier way to turn noclip on: Open the chat/console window (T key) and enter /grantme noclip. You can then toggle noclip on and off with the H key. Noclip will only be active in fly mode though (K key).
@Hiradur thanks for the tip.
If I remember correctly S  gates are supposed to be introduced in level 3. A quick fix for room 15 level would be to either add an additional slot for another block or change the statevector (but that implies to change the wall blocks, I haven't figured that out yet). Yet I will insist for a Phase block, the implementation of the rotation blocks in the game is unusual.
I can confirm that challenge #15 can't be easily solved. It seems impossible.
