It seems the libint2-dev packages in Debian and Fedora are lacking the Fortran interface. Since building libint from scratch takes quite a bit of time, maybe the toolchain could install the Fortran interface separately?
In the long run we should of course try to convince the package maintainers to include the Fortran API.
The Fortran bindings are generated in Libint and are only valid for a specific configuration of Libint, so we better rely on Libint's Fortran bindings. Yes I agree that package maintainers should provide Libint 2.5 with Fortran bindings.
If build time in toolchain is an issue, we can easily take lmax-4 version (for regtests, this is sufficient).
Ok, then I'll use lmax=4 for the Ubuntu regtests. I don't think we have to change the default in the toolchain as I can use the autotools which are just arriving #420. Perfect timing :-)
Hi @mbanck and @rathann, maybe you could have a look? Having the Fortran API packaged would greatly simplify the installation.
Fedora has libint2-2.1.0. I've asked the maintainer to include the Fortran bindings. What is the minimum version required by cp2k these days? 2.6.0-beta.5 is out - can we update to that version?
Fedora has libint2-2.1.0. I've asked the maintainer to include the Fortran bindings. What is the minimum version required by cp2k these days? 2.6.0-beta.5 is out - can we update to that version?
Thanks a lot! Officially, the minimum version required by CP2K is 2.5. However in the future CP2K will lose compatibility with libint 2.5 since there was a bug in a feature that will be required by CP2K in the future (evaleev/libint#127). So updating to a libint 2.6 beta version is a good idea.
What are the configure options for libint for Fedora? Currently CP2K requires at least
In the future, CP2K will require
Hi @mbanck and @rathann, maybe you could have a look? Having the Fortran API packaged would greatly simplify the installation.
I'll be at Debconf in about a week and will hopefully have time to overhaul the cp2k Debian package (and libint2), now that Debian buster is released.
What are the configure options for libint for Fedora? Currently CP2K requires at least
In the future, CP2K will require
libint2 in Fedora has --enable-eri=2 --enable-eri2=2 --enable-eri3=2
Hi all,
I internally got an issue reported for XCONFIGURE building CP2K with LIBINT 2.6 (as provided at https://github.com/cp2k/libint-cp2k). Let me list my findings, perhaps some are relevant for this issue or for CP2K's install script (toolchain).
For the latter point, I am doing something like:
@hfp Thanks a lot for testing and for reporting these findings. I'll fix these issues for the next libint release.
@hfp referring to the above mentioned issues, these are specific to the deprecated Makefile, and should not occur with the new CMake build.
It seems the Fortran bindings for libint2 made it into Debian, but are still missing from Fedora.
libint2 now also has Fortran bindings in Fedora.
