I think the following should be fixed regarding the merge of #1055:
1- Remove DeprecationWarning: This is a bit annoying as it gets printed all the time. I think deprecation warnings should be about something the user should update in their code. Here, we are just announcing plans for changing a default. Most people just want to write circuit_drawer(circuit).
2- circuit_drawer(circ, output='python'): can we force the output to be shown here? Otherwise, changing the default will mean everyone has to add a %matplotlib inline to their notebooks.
3- circuit_drawer(circ, output='latex_source') raises an AttributeError.
4- interactive=True has no effect with ouput='python' either. I should it should display it, right? The docstring only says
Note when used with the latex_source output type this has no effect
It should only be printed when there is no output specified. The users will need to change their code if they're expecting latex drawer to be used with no output specified (as that's the current default) it will be changed to python or ascii in the future.
I didn't change anything related to jupyter for the matplotlib output on circuit drawer. It should work exactly the same as it did before.
I likely missed something in that case can you paste the stack trace with the attribute error? I'll take a look tomorrow.
I didn't test that, but it's just calling PIL image_show when interactive is set true. It should work the same way plot_circuit() function did.
For 1 when we have the ascii can we make that the default.
@ajavadia for 4. I just tested the interactive kwarg on my desktop with both latex and python outputs and both opened a new window with the generated circuit drawing. So I'm not sure what's going on there, maybe something on mac or different on your system with the PIL library.
Ok. I think I'm fine with the warning now. It highlights the new output argument.
I guess a source of confusion can be that output='python' won't do anything unless %matplotlib inline is set in Jupyter. Should we call this output='matplotlib' so the user at least knows the underlying plotting mechanism?
Regarding 4: I'm not sure.
circuit_drawer(circ, output='python', interactive=True) just doesn't open a new window. It could just be me. Would be good if someone else could comment.
What did you run in. It does for me with pythonw
I do want to make the default
I ran in Jupyter. Ok I close this issue with the patch in #1061.
