In a previous issue (#1540) we explored generic solutions for selecting and tuning quantum error mitigation techniques according to a specific backend and/or to a specific user's problem.
In this issue we focus on the particular solution to the calibration problem that was called Solution 1 in the general RFC addressed in #1540.
Among other solutions, Solution 1 is the less complex one, but it still requires a significant planning and implementation effort due to the
general difficulty of the calibration problem.
Mitiq provides several error mitigation techniques (ZNE, PEC, CDR, DDD, …).
Moreover, each technique has several options (hyper-parameters) that can be set by the user, e.g.: folding method, extrapolation method, quasi-probability representations, DDD sequences, CDR learning strategy, etc…
This variety of possibilities is good and it’s one of the key features of Mitiq. However, it also generates an important practical issue for a typical Mitiq user that we can summarize by the following question:
“What error mitigation technique and what options should I use in my specific situation?
The scope of this issue is to develop an RFC focused a MVP for solving the previous question, including details about its software implementation and its integration with Mitiq.
See RFC document linked below.
The RFC document will be developed in a collaborative way.
Every member of the Mitiq team is encouraged to participate with comments, ideas and text content in the shared Google doc linked below.
Contributions from anyone beyond the Mitiq team are welcome too!
Link to editable RFC shared document.
hi @andreamari, can this issue be closed by Nov 30 (end of milestone 0.21)?
@Misty-W, the RFC is ready from my side.
If you happen to meet before the deadline (e.g. at the Wednesday calibration discussion by @natestemen? ), feel free to decide if it can be approved.
I am probably out-of-office most of next week but you can proceed without me.
@Misty-W, the RFC is ready from my side. If you happen to meet before the deadline (e.g. at the Wednesday calibration discussion by @natestemen? ), feel free to decide if it can be approved. I am probably out-of-office most of next week but you can proceed without me.
Thanks @andreamari!
@natestemen, if there are no blockers from your side I'll mark the RFC as "Accepted" and close the issue.
No blockers here.
