Would it be difficult to implement a function that lets you write specific values to the DDS registers? This is sometimes useful for troubleshooting the DDS' or trying out new features on it. I'm thinking of sometimes along the lines of dds.write(address, values).
I propose m-labs give a brief tutorial at NIST next week on how to add this
feature to ARTIQ. This would touch the ARTIQ codebase at a number of levels
and would be instrumental in teaching us how to implement features like
this ourselves. I'm sure Robert already knows how to do this so the
audience is more others in Ion Storage.
I guess it would entail editing the runtime and ARTIQ-runtime bindings.
https://github.com/m-labs/artiq/tree/master/soc/runtime
-Joe
On Thu, Aug 27, 2015 at 10:32 AM, raghavendrasrinivas <
notifications@github.com> wrote:
Would it be difficult to implement a function that lets you write specific
values to the DDS registers? This is sometimes useful for troubleshooting
the DDS' or trying out new features on it. I'm thinking of sometimes along
the lines of dds.write(address, values).
—
Reply to this email directly or view it on GitHub
#115.
Have you tried the runtime test mode (press "t" during boot, while connected to the serial console)?
Yes. But sometimes it's useful if we can toggle the sync_clk on and off within the experiment. For example to test how long the DDS's can stay synchronised, or to see how the internal clock is affected by certain events.
I can definitely envision use cases where we would want to re-run the DAC cal, for example, or redo the syncing to ensure it hasn't slipped, immediately before running an experiment.  I would suggest refactoring to create simple register read and write methods, which are then called by the higher level functions (set freq/amplitude/etc).  The preferred way to do things would be to use the high-level functions, but users who need the functionality could use the low-level to have arbitrary register control as needed.  This would also mean putting all the different register addresses into dds.h
In addition, once ARTIQ supports SPI we plan to be programming registers of other AD9914 chips over SPI, including multiple profiles and/or digital ramp modes. Such things would be "hand-coded", in other words the ARTIQ compiler would not be expected to keep track of DDS state (it would be up to the person writing the experiment), but an arbitrary register read/write function would be the tool to use there.
@r-srinivas @dhslichter  Is this still desired or resolved if #364 is merged?
I guess not; reopen if needed.
